# Query `100`

*What types of light can't a plant photosynthesize in?
I have a plant on my desk, and it got me to wondering: Can my plant use the light from my monitors to photosynthesize? If so, what light (apart from green light, to a degree) can't plants use to perform photosynthesis?
I know that plants have the photosynthetic pigments to absorb many different wavelengths of light (primarily red and blue) but would there be certain types of light it can't use?
(The specific plant by the way is Schlumbergera truncata)*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0106
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0933
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0053
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) accelerate_plants_growth/PMC6745571_45_2.txt
> the cellular activities and is harmful to plant growth. MF inhibits the formation of singlet oxygen, which reduces the metabolic energy available to the chloroplast (Hakala-Yatkin et al. 2011). The light wavelengths significantly influence the growth and flowering in plants, MF suppresses the flowering in white and blue light but did not affect the flowering in the red light (Xu et al. 2015).

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) UV_causes_skin_cancer/50326-what-is-ultraviolet-light.html_15_1.txt
> and incandescent sources, and some types of lasers."

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) taste_electrons/Electricity_7_10.txt
> ; N.J. Mason; Peter Hughes; Randall McMullan (2001). Introduction to Environmental Physics. Taylor & Francis. p. 130. ISBN 978-0-7484-0765-1.<br><br>^           <br>Sears, Francis; et al. (1982), University Physics, Sixth Edition, Addison Wesley, ISBN 0-201-07199-1<br><br>^ Hertz, Heinrich (1887), "Ueber den Einfluss des ultravioletten Lich

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) electrical_shock_freeze_up_muscles/Electricity_7_10.txt
> ; N.J. Mason; Peter Hughes; Randall McMullan (2001). Introduction to Environmental Physics. Taylor & Francis. p. 130. ISBN 978-0-7484-0765-1.<br><br>^           <br>Sears, Francis; et al. (1982), University Physics, Sixth Edition, Addison Wesley, ISBN 0-201-07199-1<br><br>^ Hertz, Heinrich (1887), "Ueber den Einfluss des ultravioletten Lich

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) trees_grow_directions/Phototropism_2_1.txt
> photoreceptors that absorb blue/ UV-A light, and they help control the circadian rhythm in plants and timing of flowering. Phytochromes are photoreceptors that sense red/far-red light, but they also absorb blue light; they can control flowering in adult plants and the germination of seeds, among other things.  The combination of responses from phytochromes and cryptochromes allow the plant to respond to various kinds of light. Together phytochromes and cryptochromes inhibit gravitropism in hypocotyls and


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, plant_light_pho/Chlorophyll_2.txt
> Photosynthesis[edit]<br>Absorbance spectra of free chlorophyll a (blue) and b (red) in a solvent. The spectra of chlorophyll molecules are slightly modified in vivo depending on specific pigment-protein interactions.   Chlorophyll a   Chlorophyll b<br>Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to absorb energy from light.<br>Chlorophyll molecules are arranged in and around photosystems that are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves three functions:<br>The function of the vast majority of chlorophyll (up to several hundred molecules per photosystem) is to absorb light.<br>Having done so, these same centers execute their second function: The transfer of that energy by resonance energy transfer to a specific chlorophyll pair in the reaction center of the photosystems.<br>This specific pair performs the final function of chlorophylls: Charge separation, which produces the unbound protons (H) and electrons (e) that separately propel biosynthesis.<br>The two currently accepted photosystem units are photosystem I and photosystem II, which have their own distinct reaction centres, named P700 and P680, respectively. These centres are named after the wavelength (in nanometers) of their red-peak absorption maximum. The identity, function and spectral properties of the types of chlorophyll in each photosystem are distinct and determined by each other and the protein structure surrounding them.<br>The function of the reaction center of chlorophyll is to absorb light energy and transfer it to other parts of the photosystem. The absorbed energy of the photon is transferred to an electron in a process called charge separation. The removal of the electron from the chlorophyll is an oxidation reaction. The chlorophyll donates the high energy electron to a series of molecular intermediates called an electron transport chain. The charged reaction center of chlorophyll (P680) is then reduced back to its ground state by accepting an electron stripped from water. The electron that reduces P680 ultimately comes from the oxidation of water into O2 and H through several intermediates. This reaction is how photosynthetic organisms such as plants produce O2 gas, and is the source for practically all the O2 in Earth's atmosphere. Photosystem I typically works in series with Photosystem II; thus the P700 of Photosystem I is usually reduced as it accepts the electron, via many intermediates in the thylakoid membrane, by electrons coming, ultimately, from Photosystem II. Electron transfer reactions in the thylakoid membranes are complex, however, and the source of electrons used to reduce P700 can vary.<br>The electron flow produced by the reaction center chlorophyll pigments is used to pump H ions across the thylakoid membrane, setting up a proton-motive force a chemiosmotic potential used mainly in the production of ATP (stored chemical energy) or to reduce NADP to NADPH. NADPH is a universal agent used to reduce CO2 into sugars as well as other biosynthetic reactions.<br>Reaction center chlorophyll–protein complexes are capable of directly absorbing light and performing charge separation events without the assistance of other chlorophyll pigments, but the probability of that happening under a given light intensity is small. Thus, the other chlorophylls in the photosystem and antenna pigment proteins all cooperatively absorb and funnel light energy to the reaction center. Besides chlorophyll a, there are other pigments, called accessory pigments, which occur in these pigment–protein antenna complexes.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 93, plant_light_pho/Chlorophyll_0.txt
> Chlorophyll is any of several related green pigments found in cyanobacteria and in the chloroplasts of algae and plants. Its name is derived from the Greek words χλωρός, khloros ("pale green") and φύλλον, phyllon ("leaf"). Chlorophyll allows plants to absorb energy from light.<br>Chlorophylls absorb light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum as well as the red portion. Conversely, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum. Hence chlorophyll-containing tissues appear green because green light, diffusively reflected by structures like cell walls, is less absorbed. Two types of chlorophyll exist in the photosystems of green plants: chlorophyll a and b.
