# Query `101`

*Which part of human eyes is getting tired?
It's a thing of common sense that if you read, drive or look at computer screen for too long your eyes will get tired. They burn, itch and try to close all the time.
But I was wondering which part(s) of them need rest so much... Blinking muscles? Lense muscles? Or the eyeball is drying out?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0085
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) eye_capture_shape/21823-eyes_17_4.txt
> muscles.  These control your eye’s position, alignment and movement. They also contribute to your eye’s shape, which is part of your ability to switch your vision’s focus between near and far objects.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_176_45.txt
> -337825-1").<br>32.  ^   [ "Human eye" ](https://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1688997/human-eye). Encyclopædia Britannica.<br>33. ^  _a _ _b _ Mendell, Mark J. (22 April 2004). [ "Non-Specific Symptoms In Office Workers: A Review And Summary Of The Epidemiologic Literature" ](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1600-

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_tired/irritatedhtm_139_0.txt
> Eye fatigue and discomfort

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_56_2.txt
> which<br>controls the amount of light entering the eye, is adjusted by the iris' [<br>dilator ](/wiki/Iris_dilator_muscle "Iris dilator muscle") and [ sphincter<br>muscles ](/wiki/Iris_sphincter_muscle "Iris sphincter muscle").

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_184_0.txt
> [ Muscles ](/wiki/Extraocular_muscles "Extraocular muscles") |


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, eyes_tired/Computer_vision_syndrome_1.txt
> Symptoms[edit]<br>Some symptoms of CVS include headaches, blurred vision, neck pain, fatigue, eye strain, dry eyes, irritated eyes, double vision, vertigo/dizziness, polyopia, and difficulty refocusing the eyes.  These symptoms can be further aggravated by improper lighting conditions (i.e. glare, strong blue-spectrum backlights, or bright overhead lighting) or air moving past the eyes (e.g. overhead vents, direct air from a fan).

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, eyes_tired/Computer_vision_syndrome_0.txt
> Computer vision syndrome (CVS) is a condition resulting from focusing the eyes on a computer or other display device for protracted, uninterrupted periods of time and the eye's muscles being unable to recover from the constant tension required to maintain focus on a close object.
