# Query `102`

*How does yeast dissolve in sugar?
There's this fascinating "kitchen experiment". Take a "brick" of baker's yeast (not dry yeast), and a couple teaspoons of sugar, put them together in a cup and stir together. There's no doubt both are solids: yeast is a firm block, you must use quite a bit of force initially to crush it and even then it should remain a rather thick paste. The sugar is crystals, nothing tricky about that. And then, within a minute or so of stirring, your cup contains only liquid - not entirely fluid like water, but not much thicker than cream. Solid+Solid -> Liquid.
What process leads to that? What happens with the baking yeast when it comes in contact with sugar, that it turns from solid to liquid, and releasing enough water to dissolve the sugar?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0013
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Whatistheprocessofye_42_2.txt
> happen when the yeast cell is added to a sugar solution?<br>How does yeast make sugar? Does sugar make yeast grow? How do they both affect each other?

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Whatistheprocessofye_42_0.txt
> Related questions<br>How does yeast break down starch into glucose?<br>What is the effect of sugar on baker’s yeast?<br>Can dry yeast be activated without sugar?<br>What happens when you add yeast to a sugar solution?<br>What will happen when the yeast cell is added to a sugar solution?<br>How does yeast make sugar? Does sugar make yeast grow? How do they both affect each other?<br>How can I instantly lower my blood sugar?<br>Is it possible to carry out fermentation at home with sugar and yeast?<br>What happens if you put too much sugar in yeast?

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Whatistheprocessofye_4_0.txt
> Related questions<br>How does yeast break down starch into glucose?<br>What is the effect of sugar on baker’s yeast?<br>Can dry yeast be activated without sugar?<br>What happens when you add yeast to a sugar solution?<br>What will happen when the yeast cell is added to a sugar solution?<br>Profile photo for Exploring Health Education<br>Exploring Health Education<br>Studied HDISM (California Canada) (Graduated 1997)Author has 1.6K answers and 503.5K answer views<br>·<br>1y<br>Yeast cells break down sugar through a process called fermentation

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Whatistheprocessofye_42_1.txt
> What happens if you eat yeast and sugar?<br>Can too much sugar kill yeast?<br>What is the best "sugar" to proof yeast for bread?<br>What is the result of yeast, juice, and sugar being combined?<br>How do you activate yeast without sugar?<br>What happens if you don't add sugar to yeast?<br>Related questions<br>How does yeast break down starch into glucose?<br>What is the effect of sugar on baker’s yeast?<br>Can dry yeast be activated without sugar?<br>What happens when you add yeast to a sugar solution?<br>What will

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Whatistheprocessofye_31_0.txt
> Profile photo for Joseph Cohn<br>Joseph Cohn<br>Cooking Coach at Cooklikejoe/cooklikejoe.com (2018–present)Author has 183 answers and 343.4K answer views<br>·<br>4y<br>Related<br>How does a packet of yeast interact with sugar?<br>A packet of yeast is a dried culture of living fungus. When hydrated, the dormant yeast require nutrition to multiply. Sugar, C6H12O6, is perfect yeast food. The yeast metabolize the sugar producing carbon dioxide CO2 and water H2O to capture the energy stored in the


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, yeast_dissolve_in_sugar/Osmosis_0.txt
> Osmosis (/ɒzˈmoʊsɪs/, US also /ɒs-/) is the spontaneous net movement or diffusion of solvent molecules through a selectively-permeable membrane from a region of high water potential (region of lower solute concentration) to a region of low water potential (region of higher solute concentration), in the direction that tends to equalize the solute concentrations on the two sides. It may also be used to describe a physical process in which any solvent moves across a selectively permeable membrane (permeable to the solvent, but not the solute) separating two solutions of different concentrations. Osmosis can be made to do work. Osmotic pressure is defined as the external pressure required to be applied so that there is no net movement of solvent across the membrane.  Osmotic pressure is a colligative property, meaning that the osmotic pressure depends on the molar concentration of the solute but not on its identity.<br>Osmosis is a vital process in biological systems, as biological membranes are semipermeable. In general, these membranes are impermeable to large and polar molecules, such as ions, proteins, and polysaccharides, while being permeable to non-polar or hydrophobic molecules like lipids as well as to small molecules like oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and nitric oxide. Permeability depends on solubility, charge, or chemistry, as well as solute size. Water molecules travel through the plasma membrane, tonoplast membrane (vacuole) or organelle membranes by diffusing across the phospholipid bilayer via aquaporins (small transmembrane proteins similar to those responsible for facilitated diffusion and ion channels). Osmosis provides the primary means by which water is transported into and out of cells. The turgor pressure of a cell is largely maintained by osmosis across the cell membrane between the cell interior and its relatively hypotonic environment.
