# Query `12`

*Who are humans' closest relatives, after primates?
This question here addresses the controversy of whether humans are more closely related to bonobos or chimps.
My question is - which group of animals are are closest relatives, beyond primates? Or which group of animals are all primates most closely related to?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0029
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) smallest_genome/Human_genome_1_3.txt
> considering indels), these are considerably smaller than the differences between humans and their closest living relatives, the bonobos and chimpanzees (~1.1% fixed single-nucleotide variants and 4% when including indels).

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) human_monogamy/Human_14_111.txt
> . S2CID 240125199. Retrieved 26 May 2021. ^ Goodman M, Tagle DA, Fitch DH, Bailey W, Czelusniak J, Koop BF, et al. (March 1990). "Primate evolution at the DNA level and a classification of hominoids". Journal of Molecular Evolution. 30 (3): 260–266. Bibcode : 1990JMolE..30..260G. doi : 10.1007/BF02099995. PMID 2109087. S2CID 2112935. ^ Ruvolo

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) human_monogamy/human-being_10_8.txt
> the future of “Nonconscious Man.”) Britannica Quiz Know Your Mammals Quiz Traditionally, humans were considered the sole recent representatives of the family Hominidae, but recent findings indicate that chimpanzees and bonobos are more closely related to humans than are gorillas and orangutans and that the last common ancestor between the chimpanzee and human lines lived sometime between seven million and six million years ago. Therefore, all great apes are now gathered with humans into Hominidae, and within that family humans and their extinct ancestors are considered to make up the tribe Homin

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) human_monogamy/human-being_12_8.txt
> the future of “Nonconscious Man.”) Britannica Quiz Know Your Mammals Quiz Traditionally, humans were considered the sole recent representatives of the family Hominidae, but recent findings indicate that chimpanzees and bonobos are more closely related to humans than are gorillas and orangutans and that the last common ancestor between the chimpanzee and human lines lived sometime between seven million and six million years ago. Therefore, all great apes are now gathered with humans into Hominidae, and within that family humans and their extinct ancestors are considered to make up the tribe Homin

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) human_monogamy/human-being_11_8.txt
> the future of “Nonconscious Man.”) Britannica Quiz Know Your Mammals Quiz Traditionally, humans were considered the sole recent representatives of the family Hominidae, but recent findings indicate that chimpanzees and bonobos are more closely related to humans than are gorillas and orangutans and that the last common ancestor between the chimpanzee and human lines lived sometime between seven million and six million years ago. Therefore, all great apes are now gathered with humans into Hominidae, and within that family humans and their extinct ancestors are considered to make up the tribe Homin


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, humans_closest_relatives_after_primates/Treeshrew_0.txt
> The treeshrews (also called tree shrews or banxrings) are small mammals native to the tropical forests of South and Southeast Asia. They make up the entire order Scandentia, which split into two families: the Tupaiidae (19 species, "ordinary" treeshrews), and the Ptilocercidae (one species, the pen-tailed treeshrew).<br>Though called 'treeshrews', and despite having previously been classified in Insectivora, they are not true shrews, and not all species live in trees. They are omnivores; among other things, treeshrews eat fruit.<br>Treeshrews have a higher brain to body mass ratio than any other mammal, including humans, but high ratios are not uncommon for animals weighing less than 1 kg (2 lb).<br>Among orders of mammals, treeshrews are closely related to primates, and have been used as an alternative to primates in experimental studies of myopia, psychosocial stress, and hepatitis.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, humans_closest_relatives_after_primates/Treeshrew_6.txt
> Taxonomy[edit]<br>They make up the entire order Scandentia, split into the families Tupaiidae, the treeshrews, and Ptilocercidae, the pen-tailed treeshrew. The 20 species are placed in five genera.<br>Treeshrews were moved from the order Insectivora into the order Primates because of certain internal similarities to primates (for example, similarities in the brain anatomy, highlighted by Sir Wilfrid Le Gros Clark), and classified as a "primitive prosimian", however they were soon split from the primates and moved into their own clade. Taxonomists continue to refine the treeshrews' relations to primates and to other closely related clades.<br>Molecular phylogenetic studies have suggested that the treeshrews should be given the same rank (order) as the primates and, with the primates and the flying lemurs (colugos), belong to the grandorder Euarchonta. According to this classification, the Euarchonta are sister to the Glires (lagomorphs and rodents), and the two groups are combined into the superorder Euarchontoglires. However, the alternative placement of treeshrews as sister to both Glires and Primatomorpha cannot be ruled out. Some studies place Scandentia as sister of the Glires, which would invalidate Euarchonta: It is this organization that is shown in the tree diagram below.<br>Euarchontoglires<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Scandentia (treeshrews)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Glires<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Lagomorpha (rabbits, hares, pikas)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Rodentia (rodents)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Primatomorpha<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Dermoptera (Colugos)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>†Plesiadapiformes<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Primates<br>Several other arrangements of these orders have been proposed in the past, and the above tree is only a well-favored proposal. Although it is known that Scandentia is one of the most basal Euarchontoglire clades, the exact phylogenetic position is not yet considered resolved: It may be a sister of Glires, Primatomorpha, or Dermoptera, or separate from and sister to all other Euarchontoglires. Shared short interspersed nuclear elements (SINEs) offer strong evidence for scandentia belonging to the euarchonta group:<br><br>Euarchontoglires<br><br><br><br><br><br>Glires<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Lagomorpha (rabbits, hares, pikas)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Rodentia (rodents)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Euarchonta<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Scandentia (treeshrews)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Primatomorpha<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Dermoptera (colugos)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Primates (†Plesiadapiformes, Strepsirrhini, Haplorrhini)<br>Order Scandentia[edit]<br>Main article: List of scandentians<br>The 23 species are placed in four genera, which are divided into two families. The majority are in the "ordinary" treeshrew family, Tupaiidae, but one species, the pen-tailed treeshrew, is different enough to warrant placement in its own family, Ptilocercidae; the two families are thought to have separated 60 million years ago. The former Tupaiidae genus Urogale was disbanded in 2011 when the Mindanao treeshrew was moved to Tupaia based on a molecular phylogeny.<br>Family Tupaiidae<br>Genus Anathana<br>Madras treeshrew, A. ellioti<br>Genus Dendrogale<br>Bornean smooth-tailed treeshrew, D. melanura<br>Northern smooth-tailed treeshrew, D. murina<br>Genus Tupaia<br>Northern treeshrew, T. belangeri<br>Golden-bellied treeshrew, T. chrysogaster<br>Bangka Island treeshrew, T. discolor<br>Striped treeshrew, T. dorsalis<br>Mindanao treeshrew, T. everetti<br>Sumatran treeshrew, T. ferruginea<br>Common treeshrew, T. glis<br>Slender treeshrew, T. gracilis<br>Javan treeshrew, T. hypochrysa<br>Horsfield's treeshrew, T. javanica<br>Long-footed treeshrew, T. longipes<br>Pygmy treeshrew, T. minor<br>Mountain treeshrew, T. montana<br>Nicobar treeshrew, T. nicobarica<br>Palawan treeshrew, T. palawanensis<br>Painted treeshrew, T. picta<br>Kalimantan treeshrew, T. salatana<br>Ruddy treeshrew, T. splendidula<br>Large treeshrew, T. tana<br>Family Ptilocercidae<br>Genus Ptilocercus<br>Pen-tailed treeshrew, P. lowii

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, humans_closest_relatives_after_primates/Colugo_0.txt
> Colugos (/kəˈluːɡoʊ/) are arboreal gliding mammals that are native to Southeast Asia. Their closest evolutionary relatives are primates. There are just two living species of colugos: the Sunda flying lemur (Galeopterus variegatus) and the Philippine flying lemur (Cynocephalus volans). These two species make up the entire family Cynocephalidae (/ˌsaɪnoʊˌsɛfəˈlaɪdi, -ˌkɛ-/) and order Dermoptera (not to be confused with Dermaptera, an order of insects known as earwigs).

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, humans_closest_relatives_after_primates/Colugo_1.txt
> Characteristics[edit]<br>Colugos are nocturnal, tree-dwelling mammals.<br>Appearance and anatomy[edit]<br>They reach lengths of 35 to 40 cm (14 to 16 in) and weigh 1 to 2 kg (2.2 to 4.4 lb). They have long, slender front and rear limbs, a medium-length tail, and a relatively light build. The head is small, with large, front-focused eyes for excellent binocular vision, and small rounded ears.<br>The incisor teeth of colugos are highly distinctive; they are comb-like in shape with up to 20 tines on each tooth. The incisors are analogous in appearance and function to the incisor suite in strepsirrhines, which is used for grooming. The second upper incisors have two roots, another unique feature among mammals. The dental formula of colugos is: 2.1.2.33.1.2.3<br>Feet of Philippine colugo.<br>Movement[edit]<br>Colugos are proficient gliders, and they can travel as far as 70 m (230 ft) from one tree to another without losing much altitude, with a Malayan colugo (Galeopterus variegatus) individual having travelled about 150 m (490 ft) in one glide.<br>Of all the gliding mammals, colugos have the most perfected adaptation for flight. They have a large membrane of skin that extends between their paired limbs and gives them the ability to glide significant distances between trees. This gliding membrane, or patagium, runs from the shoulder blades to the fore paws, from the tip of the rear-most fingers to the tip of the toes, and from the hind legs to the tip of the tail. The spaces between the colugo's fingers and toes are webbed. As a result, colugos were once considered to be close relatives of bats. Today, on account of genetic data, they are considered to be more closely related to primates.<br>Lower jaw (Galeopterus).<br>Colugos are unskilled climbers; they lack opposable thumbs. They progress up trees in a series of slow hops, gripping onto the bark with their small, sharp claws. They spend most of the day resting. At night, colugos spend most of their time up in the trees foraging, with gliding being used to either find another foraging tree or to find possible mates and protect territory.<br>Behavior and diet[edit]<br>Colugos are shy, nocturnal, solitary animals found in the tropical forests of Southeast Asia. Consequently, very little is known about their behavior. They are herbivorous and eat leaves, shoots, flowers, sap, and fruit. They have well-developed stomachs and long intestines capable of extracting nutrients from leaves and other fibrous material.<br>Colugos have evolved into a nocturnal species, along with the ability to proficiently see during the nighttime. Colugos spend their days resting in tree holes and are active at night time; traveling around 1.7 km at night. Colugos may also be a territorial species.<br>Life cycle[edit]<br>Although they are placental mammals, colugos raise their young in a manner similar to marsupials. Newborn colugos are underdeveloped and weigh only 35 g (1.2 oz). They spend the first six months of life clinging to their mother's belly. The mother colugo curls her tail and folds her patagium into a warm, secure, quasipouch to protect and transport her young. The young do not reach maturity until they are two to three years old. In captivity, they live up to 15 years, but their lifespan in the wild is unknown.
