# Query `14`

*What do you see when your eyes are closed?
If you are in pitch black and you close your eyes, you sometimes can see strange shapes of various colors. A lot of the time these shapes and colors change as you observe them. This phenomenon still occurs if you are not in complete darkness.
I am wondering what this is that you are `seeing'? Is this phenomenon classified as seeing, as how can we be looking at something if our eyes are closed?
If you are not seeing these shapes and colors, then what you observe is pure darkness. What is this pure darkness that you are seeing? Since you are seeing it, is something stimulating the vision parts of your brain? Is it the back of your eyelid?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.2000
P_50: 0.1200
P_100: 0.0600
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.1429
recall_10: 0.2857
recall_25: 0.7143
recall_50: 0.8571
recall_100: 0.8571
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1312
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1980
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3948
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4472
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4472
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0286
map_cut_10: 0.0694
map_cut_25: 0.1647
map_cut_50: 0.1879
map_cut_100: 0.1879
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_176_0.txt
> 1.  ^   Zimmer, Carl (February 2012). [ "Our Strange, Important, Subconscious Light Detectors" ](https://www.discovermagazine.com/mind/the-brain-our-strange-important-subconscious-light-detectors). Discover Magazine . Retrieved  2012-05-05 .<br>2.  ^   Schwiegerling, Jim (2004). _Field guide to visual and ophthalmic optics_. SPIE FG. Bellingham, Wash: SPIE Press. [ ISBN ](

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) see_when_eyes_closed/Closed-eye_hallucination_3_0.txt
> See also[edit]<br>Dark retreat – Tibetan Buddhism advanced practice<br>Eigengrau – Illusionary dark gray color<br>Eidetic memory – Ability to recall an image from memory after one viewing<br>Entoptic phenomenon – Visual effect whose source is within the eye itself<br>Form constant – Recurringly observed geometric pattern<br>Ganzfeld effect – Psychological phenomenon<br>Hallucinogen – General group of pharmacological agents<br>Hallucinogen persisting perception disorder – Medical condition<br>Haidinger's brush – Visible effect of polarised

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) vision_of_lights/Phosphene_5_0.txt
> See also[edit]<br>Closed-eye hallucination – Class of hallucination<br>Dark retreat – Tibetan Buddhism advanced practice<br>Isolation tank – Pitch-black, light-proof, soundproof environment heated to the same temperature as the skin<br>Prisoner's cinema – Visual phenomenon involving seeing animated lights in the darkness<br>Scintillating scotoma – Visual aura associated with migraine<br>Photopsia – Presence of perceived flashes of light in one's field of vision<br>Visual snow – Class of hallucinationPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>HP

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) see_when_eyes_closed/Phosphene_5_0.txt
> See also[edit]<br>Closed-eye hallucination – Class of hallucination<br>Dark retreat – Tibetan Buddhism advanced practice<br>Isolation tank – Pitch-black, light-proof, soundproof environment heated to the same temperature as the skin<br>Prisoner's cinema – Visual phenomenon involving seeing animated lights in the darkness<br>Scintillating scotoma – Visual aura associated with migraine<br>Photopsia – Presence of perceived flashes of light in one's field of vision<br>Visual snow – Class of hallucinationPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>HP

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) see_when_eyes_closed/Closed-eye_hallucination_2.txt
> What is not a CEV[edit]<br><br>This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Afterimage (palinopsia)[edit]<br>Image burn-in occurs when very bright objects lie in one's field of vision, and should not be confused with closed-eye hallucinations. Visual burn-in from bright lights is visible for a few minutes after closing the eyes, or by blinking repeatedly, but the burn-in effect slowly fades away as the retina recovers, whereas the waking-consciousness CEV noise will not disappear if observed continuously over a period of time.<br>Entoptic phenomena[edit]<br>CEV does not include entoptic phenomena such as "floaters", which are instead caused by opacities in the vitreous humour and often appear as cells or strands in the field of vision. Full-closing and reopening the eyelids creates a very definite wiper-ridge in the tear film that is readily visible. Fully closing and reopening the eyelids also often stirs up the vitreous which settles down after a brief moment due to gravity. The motion of waking-consciousness CEV noise is not so directly and physically controllable and repeatable.<br>Blue-sky sprites[edit]<br>CEV does not seem to be related to the "sprites" (blue field entoptic phenomenon) that can be seen as dots darting around when staring up into a bright blue sky on a sunny day (not looking at the sun). These dots superimposed over a flat blue background are white blood cells moving through the blood vessels of the retina. The motion of waking-consciousness CEV noise is uniformly random compared to the waking-consciousness blue-sky sprite motion.<br>Physical retinal stimulation[edit]<br>CEV is unrelated to the visual noise seen when the retina is physically stimulated.  The retina can be made to produce light patterns of visual noise simply by one rubbing their eyes somewhat forcefully in a manner that increases intraocular pressure.  Additionally, retinal noise can be produced by touching near the rear of the eyeball producing pressure phosphenes (for example, if one closes one's eyes, looks all the way left, and lightly touches the rightmost part of the eye socket, this produces visual noise in the shape of a circle that appears at the left side of the visual <br>field – a practice that is neither painful nor dangerous).  None of these are closed-eye hallucinations, but rather the experience of mechanical stimuli distorted into visual stimuli. Thus, pressure phosphenes are sensory distortions, and not hallucinations, as the latter is an unreal perception in the absence of stimuli.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 4, see_when_eyes_closed/Closed-eye_hallucination_2.txt
> What is not a CEV[edit]<br><br>This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Afterimage (palinopsia)[edit]<br>Image burn-in occurs when very bright objects lie in one's field of vision, and should not be confused with closed-eye hallucinations. Visual burn-in from bright lights is visible for a few minutes after closing the eyes, or by blinking repeatedly, but the burn-in effect slowly fades away as the retina recovers, whereas the waking-consciousness CEV noise will not disappear if observed continuously over a period of time.<br>Entoptic phenomena[edit]<br>CEV does not include entoptic phenomena such as "floaters", which are instead caused by opacities in the vitreous humour and often appear as cells or strands in the field of vision. Full-closing and reopening the eyelids creates a very definite wiper-ridge in the tear film that is readily visible. Fully closing and reopening the eyelids also often stirs up the vitreous which settles down after a brief moment due to gravity. The motion of waking-consciousness CEV noise is not so directly and physically controllable and repeatable.<br>Blue-sky sprites[edit]<br>CEV does not seem to be related to the "sprites" (blue field entoptic phenomenon) that can be seen as dots darting around when staring up into a bright blue sky on a sunny day (not looking at the sun). These dots superimposed over a flat blue background are white blood cells moving through the blood vessels of the retina. The motion of waking-consciousness CEV noise is uniformly random compared to the waking-consciousness blue-sky sprite motion.<br>Physical retinal stimulation[edit]<br>CEV is unrelated to the visual noise seen when the retina is physically stimulated.  The retina can be made to produce light patterns of visual noise simply by one rubbing their eyes somewhat forcefully in a manner that increases intraocular pressure.  Additionally, retinal noise can be produced by touching near the rear of the eyeball producing pressure phosphenes (for example, if one closes one's eyes, looks all the way left, and lightly touches the rightmost part of the eye socket, this produces visual noise in the shape of a circle that appears at the left side of the visual <br>field – a practice that is neither painful nor dangerous).  None of these are closed-eye hallucinations, but rather the experience of mechanical stimuli distorted into visual stimuli. Thus, pressure phosphenes are sensory distortions, and not hallucinations, as the latter is an unreal perception in the absence of stimuli.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 22, see_when_eyes_closed/Phosphene_0.txt
> A phosphene is the phenomenon of seeing light without light entering the eye. The word phosphene comes from the Greek words phos (light) and phainein (to show).  Phosphenes that are induced by movement or sound may be associated with optic neuritis.<br>Phosphenes can be induced by mechanical, electrical, or magnetic stimulation of the retina or visual cortex, or by random firing of cells in the visual system. Phosphenes have also been reported by meditators (called nimitta), people who endure long periods without visual stimulation (the prisoner's cinema), or those who ingest psychedelic drugs.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 6, see_when_eyes_closed/Phosphene_1.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>Mechanical stimulation[edit]<br>The most common phosphenes are pressure phosphenes, caused by rubbing or applying pressure on or near the closed eyes. They have been known since antiquity, and described by the Greeks. The pressure mechanically stimulates the cells of the retina. Experiences include a darkening of the visual field that moves against the rubbing, a diffuse colored patch that also moves against the rubbing, well defined shapes such as bright circles that exist near or opposite to where pressure is being applied, a scintillating and ever-changing and deforming light grid with occasional dark spots (like a crumpling fly-spotted flyscreen), and a sparse field of intense blue points of light. Pressure phosphenes can persist briefly after the rubbing stops and the eyes are opened, allowing the phosphenes to be seen on the visual scene. Hermann von Helmholtz and others have published drawings of their pressure phosphenes. One example of a pressure phosphene is demonstrated by gently pressing the side of one's eye and observing a colored ring of light on the opposite side, as detailed by Isaac Newton.<br>Another common phosphene is "seeing stars" from a sneeze, laughter, a heavy and deep cough, blowing of the nose, a blow on the head or low blood pressure (such as on standing up too quickly or prior to fainting). It is possible these involve some mechanical stimulation of the retina, but they may also involve mechanical and metabolic (such as from low oxygenation or lack of glucose) stimulation of neurons of the visual cortex or of other parts of the visual system.<br>Less commonly, phosphenes can also be caused by some diseases of the retina and nerves, such as multiple sclerosis. The British National Formulary lists phosphenes as an occasional side effect of at least one anti-anginal medication.<br>The name "phosphene" was coined by J. B. H. Savigny, better known as the ship's surgeon of the wrecked French frigate Méduse. It was first employed by Serre d'Uzes to test retinal function prior to cataract surgery.<br>Electrical stimulation[edit]<br>Phosphenes have been created by electrical stimulation of the brain, reported by neurologist Otfrid Foerster as early as 1929. Brindley and Lewin (1968) inserted a matrix of stimulating electrodes directly into the visual cortex of a 52-year-old blind female, using small pulses of electricity to create phosphenes. These phosphenes were points, spots, and bars of colorless or colored light. Brindley and Rushton (1974) used the phosphenes to create a visual prosthesis, in this case by using the phosphenes to depict Braille spots.<br>In recent years, researchers have successfully developed experimental brain–computer interfaces or neuroprostheses that stimulate phosphenes to restore vision to people blinded through accidents. Notable successes include the human experiments by William H. Dobelle and Mark Humayun and animal research by Dick Normann.<br>A noninvasive technique that uses electrodes on the scalp, transcranial magnetic stimulation, has also been shown to produce phosphenes.<br>Experiments with humans have shown that when the visual cortex is stimulated above the calcarine fissure, phosphenes are produced in the lower part of the visual field, and vice versa.<br>Others[edit]<br>Phosphenes have been produced by intense, changing magnetic fields, such as with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). These fields can be positioned on different parts of the head to stimulate cells in different parts of the visual system. They also can be induced by alternating currents that entrain neural oscillation as with transcranial alternating current stimulation. In this case they appear in the peripheral visual field. This claim has been disputed. The alternative hypothesis is that current spread from the occipital electrode evokes phosphenes in the retina. Phosphenes created by magnetic fields are known as magnetophosphenes.<br>Astronauts exposed to radiation in space have reported seeing phosphenes. Patients undergoing radiotherapy have reported seeing blue flashes of light during treatment; the underlying phenomenon has been shown to resemble Cherenkov radiation.<br>Phosphenes can be caused by some medications, such as Ivabradine.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 11, see_when_eyes_closed/Closed-eye_hallucination_0.txt
> Closed-eye hallucinations and closed-eye visualizations (CEV) are hallucinations that occur when one's eyes are closed or when one is in a darkened room. They should not be confused with phosphenes, perceived light and shapes when pressure is applied to the eye's retina, or some other non-visual external cause stimulates the eye. Some people report CEV under the influence of psychedelics; these are reportedly of a different nature than the "open-eye" hallucinations of the same compounds. Similar hallucinations that occur due to loss of vision are called "visual release hallucinations".

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 36, see_when_eyes_closed/Phosphene_2.txt
> Mechanism[edit]<br>Most vision researchers believe that phosphenes result from the normal activity of the visual system after stimulation of one of its parts from some stimulus other than light. For example, Grüsser et al. showed that pressure on the eye results in activation of retinal ganglion cells in a similar way to activation by light. An ancient, discredited theory is that light is generated in the eye. A version of this theory has been revived, except, according to its author, that "phosphene lights are [supposed to be] due to the intrinsic perception of induced or spontaneous increased biophoton emission of cells in various parts of the visual system (from retina to cortex)"

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 19, see_when_eyes_closed/Closed-eye_hallucination_1.txt
> Levels of CEV perception[edit]<br><br>See also: Creative visualization<br>There are five known levels of CEV perception which can be achieved either through chemical stimuli or through meditative relaxation techniques. Level 1 and 2 are very common and often happen every day. It is still normal to experience level 3, and even level 4, but only a small percentage of the population does this without psychedelic drugs, meditation or extensive visualization training.<br>Level 1: Visual noise[edit]<br>CEV noise simulation<br>The most basic form of CEV perception that can be immediately experienced in normal waking consciousness involves a seemingly random noise of pointillistic light or dark regions with no apparent shape or order.<br>This can be seen when the eyes are closed and looking at the back of the eyelids. In a bright room, a dark red can be seen, owing to a small amount of light penetrating the eyelids and taking on the color of the blood it has passed through. In a dark room, blackness can be seen or the object can be more colourful. But in either case it is not a flat unchanging redness/blackness. Instead, if actively observed for a few minutes, one becomes aware of an apparent disorganized motion, a random field of lightness or darkness that overlays the redness or blackness of closed eyelids.<br>For a person who tries to actively observe this closed-eye perception on a regular basis, there comes a point where if they look at a flat-shaded object with their eyes wide open, and try to actively look for this visual noise, they will become aware of it and see the random pointillistic disorganized motion as if it were a translucent overlay on top of what is actually being seen by their open eyes.<br>CEV noise simulation with multiple colors (Purple, Green, Yellow)<br>When seen overlaid onto the physical world, this CEV noise does not obscure physical vision at all, and in fact is hard to notice if the visual field is highly patterned, complex, or in motion. When active observation is stopped, it is not obvious or noticeable, and seemingly disappears from normal physical perception. Individuals suffering from visual snow syndrome see similar noise but experience difficulty blocking it from conscious perception.<br>Level 2: Light or dark flashes[edit]<br>CEV noise simulation with multiple colors and flashing dot<br>Some mental control can be exerted over these closed-eye visualizations, but it usually requires a bit of relaxation and concentration to achieve. <br>When properly relaxed it is possible to cause regions of intense black, bright white or even colors such as yellow, green, or pink to appear in the noise. These regions can span the entire visual field, but seem to be fleeting in nature.<br>Level 3: Patterns, motion, and color[edit]<br>Level 3 CEV simulation without noise<br>This level is relatively easily accessible to people who use psychedelic drugs such as LSD. However, it is also accessible to people involved in deep concentration for long periods of time. When lying down at night and closing the eyes, right before sleep or just before waking up, the complex motion of these patterns can become directly visible without any great effort thanks to hypnagogic hallucination.<br>The patterns themselves might resemble fractals.<br>Level 4: Objects and things[edit]<br>This is a fairly deep state. At this level, thoughts visually manifest as objects or environments. When this level is reached, the CEV noise seems to calm down and fade away, leaving behind an intense flat ordered blackness. The visual field becomes a sort of active space. A side component of this is the ability to feel motion when the eyes are closed.<br>CEV noise simulation with disappearing flashing image<br>Opening the eyes returns one to the normal physical world, but still with the CEV object field overlaid onto it and present. In this state it is possible to see things that appear to be physical objects in the open-eye physical world, but that aren't really there.<br>If we remember that the essential difference between what we call the real world and the world of imagination and hallucination, is not the elements of which we build them up but the sequence in which these elements appear... then it follows that the sequences directed from without represent a limitation of the otherwise unlimited combinations of the selective forms released at random from within.— Jurij Moskvitin, Essay on the origin of thought.<br>Level 5: Overriding physical perception[edit]<br>Level 5 CEV simulation<br>This level can be entered from complete sensory deprivation, as experienced in an isolation tank or deep trance of hypnosis, but even there it requires great relaxation.<br>According to lucid dreaming researcher Stephen LaBerge, perceptions can come from either the senses or imagination. An inhibitory system involving the thalamus, likely involving serotonergic neurons, inhibits imaginary perceptions from becoming too activated so they turn into hallucinations. This system is inhibited during REM sleep, and the imagination can freely run into the perceptual systems.  What happens at level 5 is likely that this system is inhibited, just like in REM sleep, by different causes like sensory deprivation, psychedelic drugs or meditative relaxation techniques.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, see_when_eyes_closed/Phosphene_4.txt
> Research[edit]<br>Research has looked into visual prosthesis for the blind, which involves use of arrays of electrodes implanted in the skull over the occipital lobe to produce phosphenes. There have been long term implants of this type. Risks, such as infections and seizures, have been an impediment to their development.<br>A possible use of phosphenes as part of a brain to brain communication system has been reported. The system called BrainNet, produces phosphenes using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The goal of the research is to connect thoughts brain to brain using a system where signals are detected using electroencephalography (EEG) and  delivered using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). An experiment was conducted with 5 different groups, each contained three people. The subjects were split into two groups. Two subjects functioned as the senders, and were connected to EEG electrodes, and a third person functioned as the receiver, who wore the TMS helmet. Each person was stationed in front of a television screen with a Tetris-style game. The senders had to determine if there was a need to rotate the falling blocks, but without the ability to rotate them – only the receiver was able to perform this operation. At the edges of each screen, were two icons with two flashing lights in two different frequencies, (one at 15 Hz and the other at 17 Hz). The sender focused on one icon, or the other to signal that the block should be rotated to the right or the left. The EEG produced a unique signal, which was transmitted to the TMS helmet of the receiver, who perceived phosphenes which differed for the 15 Hz and 17 Hz  signal, and rotated the block in the relevant direction. The experiment achieved 81% success.
