# Query `25`

*What's the mechanism for being mentally tired?
I notice that after long tests, or long periods of critical thinking, my body and mind feel noticeably tired. Why does this happen? Are the neurons in my head not firing as quickly, or is there just a perceived lack of mental concentration?
What exactly is the mechanism that makes my brain feel worn out, or at least gives me the perception of my brain being worn out?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.3000
P_25: 0.1600
P_50: 0.1200
P_100: 0.0800
recall_1: 0.1111
recall_5: 0.2222
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.4444
recall_50: 0.6667
recall_100: 0.8889
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.4704
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4001
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4501
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5464
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6224
map_cut_1: 0.1111
map_cut_5: 0.1556
map_cut_10: 0.1972
map_cut_25: 0.2150
map_cut_50: 0.2578
map_cut_100: 0.2810
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_2.txt
> Classification[edit]<br><br>See also: Central nervous system fatigue and Muscle fatigue<br>By type[edit]<br>Uni- or multi-dimensional[edit]<br>It is disputed whether there are different dimensions of fatigue, such as peripheral (muscle) and central (mental) fatigue, or whether fatigue is a uni-dimensional phenomenon that influences different aspects of human life.<br>A 2021 review considered that different 'types/subsets' of fatigue may exist and that patients normally present with more than one such 'type/subset". These different "types/subsets" of fatigue may be different dimensions of the same symptom, and the relative manifestations of each may depend on the relative contribution of different mechanisms. Inflammation may be the root causal mechanism in many cases.<br>Physical[edit]<br>Physical fatigue, or muscle fatigue, is the temporary physical inability of muscles to perform optimally. The onset of muscle fatigue during physical activity is gradual, and depends upon an individual's level of physical fitness – other factors include sleep deprivation and overall health. Physical fatigue can be caused by a lack of energy in the muscle, by a decrease of the efficiency of the neuromuscular junction or by a reduction of the drive originating from the central nervous system, and can be reversed by rest. The central component of fatigue is triggered by an increase of the level of serotonin in the central nervous system. During motor activity, serotonin released in synapses that contact motor neurons promotes muscle contraction. During high level of motor activity, the amount of serotonin released increases and a spillover occurs. Serotonin binds to extrasynaptic receptors located on the axonal initial segment of motor neurons with the result that nerve impulse initiation and thereby muscle contraction are inhibited.<br>Muscle strength testing can be used to determine the presence of a neuromuscular disease, but cannot determine its cause. Additional testing, such as electromyography, can provide diagnostic information, but information gained from muscle strength testing alone is not enough to diagnose most neuromuscular disorders.<br>Mental[edit]<br>Mental fatigue is a temporary inability to maintain optimal cognitive performance. The onset of mental fatigue during any cognitive activity is gradual, and depends upon an individual's cognitive ability, and also upon other factors, such as sleep deprivation and overall health.<br>Mental fatigue has also been shown to decrease physical performance. It can manifest as somnolence, lethargy, directed attention fatigue, or disengagement. Research also suggests that mental fatigue is closely linked to the concept of ego depletion, though the validity of the concept is disputed. For example, one pre-registered study of 686 participants found that after exerting mental effort, people are likely to disengage and become less interested in exerting further effort.<br>Decreased attention can also be described as a more or less decreased level of consciousness. In any case, this can be dangerous when performing tasks that require constant concentration, such as operating large vehicles. For instance, a person who is sufficiently somnolent may experience microsleep. However, objective cognitive testing can be used to differentiate the neurocognitive deficits of brain disease from those attributable to tiredness.<br>The perception of mental fatigue is believed to be modulated by the brain's reticular activating system (RAS).<br>Fatigue impacts a driver's reaction time, awareness of hazards around them and their attention. Drowsy drivers are three times more likely to be involved in a car crash, and being awake over 20 hours is the equivalent of driving with a blood-alcohol concentration level of 0.08%.<br>Neurological fatigue[edit]<br>People with multiple sclerosis experience a form of overwhelming tiredness that can occur at any time of the day, for any duration, and that does not necessarily recur in a recognizable pattern for any given patient, referred to as "neurological fatigue", and often as "multiple sclerosis fatigue" or "lassitude".<br>People with autoimmune diseases including inflammatory rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and primary Sjögren's syndrome, experience similar fatigue.<br>By timescale[edit]<br>Acute[edit]<br>Acute fatigue is that which is temporary and self-limited. Acute fatigue is most often caused by an infection such as the common cold and can be cognized as one part of the sickness behavior response occurring when the immune system fights an infection.<br>Other common causes of acute fatigue include depression and chemical causes, such as dehydration, poisoning, low blood sugar, or mineral or vitamin deficiencies.<br>Prolonged[edit]<br>Prolonged fatigue is a self-reported, persistent (constant) fatigue lasting at least one month.<br>Chronic[edit]<br>Chronic fatigue is a self-reported fatigue lasting at least 6 consecutive months. Chronic fatigue may be either persistent or relapsing. Chronic fatigue is a symptom of many chronic illnesses and of idiopathic chronic fatigue.<br>By effect[edit]<br>Fatigue can have significant negative impacts on quality of life. Profound and debilitating fatigue is the most common complaint reported among individuals with autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.<br>Fatigue that dissociates by quantum with disease activity represents a large health economic burden and unmet need to patients and to society.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC10539891_9_1.txt
> timekeeper of circadian rhythms is the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus.34 Circadian rhythm manifests at the cellular and network level, involving several pathways and neurotransmitters35 and modulating brain activity,36 cognition,37 and cortical excitability.38 Sleep pressure, or sleep homeostasis, is mostly mediated by the concentration of adenosine diphosphate (ADP). ADP is a waste product of neural activity,39 and high concentrations of ADP are correlated with deeper slow-wave sleep.40 Adenosine inhibits neurons involved in the arousal circuits and exc

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/s41467022345032_127_0.txt
> How and why alertness levels drop significantly following a high-glycemic meal<br>has been linked to glucose-sensing neurons in the brain and may accurately<br>account for our related findings. Indeed, when glucose-sensing neurons are<br>activated by high(er) levels of blood sugar  [ 30<br>](/articles/s41467-022-34503-2#ref-CR30 "Burdakov, D. K+ channels stimulated<br>by glucose: a new energy-sensing pathway. Pflug. Arch. 454, 19–27 \(2007\).")

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) neuron_onto/PMC7203343_27_0.txt
> Go to:<br>Mechanism<br>Synapses

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_5.txt
> Mechanisms[edit]<br>The mechanisms that cause fatigue are not well understood. Several mechanisms may be in operation within a patient, with the relative contribution of each mechanism differing over time.<br>Inflammation[edit]<br>Inflammation distorts neural chemistry, brain function and functional connectivity across a broad range of brain networks, and has been linked to many types of fatigue. Findings implicate neuroinflammation in the etiology of fatigue in autoimmune and related disorders. <br>Low-grade inflammation may cause an imbalance between energy availability and expenditure. Cytokines are small protein molecules that modulate immune responses and inflammation (as well as other functions) and may have causal roles in fatigue. The inflammation model may have difficulty in explaining the "unpredictability" and "variability" (i.e. appearing intermittently during the day, and not on all days) of the fatigue associated with inflammatory rheumatic diseases and autoimmune diseases (such as multiple sclerosis).<br>Heat shock proteins[edit]<br>A small 2016 study found that primary Sjögren's syndrome patients with high fatigue, when compared with those with low fatigue, had significantly higher plasma concentrations of HSP90α, and a tendency to higher concentrations of HSP72.<br>Reduced brain connectivity[edit]<br>Fatigue has been correlated with reductions in structural and functional connectivity in the brain. This has included in post-stroke, MS, NMOSD and MOG, and ME/CFS. This was also found for fatigue after brain injury, including a significant linear correlation between self-reported fatigue and brain functional connectivity. (Areas of the brain for which there is evidence of relation to fatigue are the thalamus and middle frontal cortex, fronto-parietal and cingulo-opercular,  and default mode network, salience network, and thalamocortical loop areas.)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 28, mechanism_mentally_tired/Directed_attention_fatigue_2.txt
> Cause[edit]<br>This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>The onset of directed attention fatigue can be triggered by a number of activities, all of which involve use of the brain's inhibitory system. Activities that engage this system include multitasking, working in an environment with disruptive background noise or after a lack of sleep, and rapidly changing focus during a prolonged period of attention. DAF can also be brought about by performing concentration-intensive tasks such as puzzle-solving or learning unfamiliar ideas. External factors such as stress resulting from emergencies, exams or work deadlines can also induce DAF. Any illness or injury to the brain that interrupts the brain circuits involved in maintaining attention and inhibiting external stimuli may also contribute to the development of directed attention fatigue.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 4, mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_5.txt
> Mechanisms[edit]<br>The mechanisms that cause fatigue are not well understood. Several mechanisms may be in operation within a patient, with the relative contribution of each mechanism differing over time.<br>Inflammation[edit]<br>Inflammation distorts neural chemistry, brain function and functional connectivity across a broad range of brain networks, and has been linked to many types of fatigue. Findings implicate neuroinflammation in the etiology of fatigue in autoimmune and related disorders. <br>Low-grade inflammation may cause an imbalance between energy availability and expenditure. Cytokines are small protein molecules that modulate immune responses and inflammation (as well as other functions) and may have causal roles in fatigue. The inflammation model may have difficulty in explaining the "unpredictability" and "variability" (i.e. appearing intermittently during the day, and not on all days) of the fatigue associated with inflammatory rheumatic diseases and autoimmune diseases (such as multiple sclerosis).<br>Heat shock proteins[edit]<br>A small 2016 study found that primary Sjögren's syndrome patients with high fatigue, when compared with those with low fatigue, had significantly higher plasma concentrations of HSP90α, and a tendency to higher concentrations of HSP72.<br>Reduced brain connectivity[edit]<br>Fatigue has been correlated with reductions in structural and functional connectivity in the brain. This has included in post-stroke, MS, NMOSD and MOG, and ME/CFS. This was also found for fatigue after brain injury, including a significant linear correlation between self-reported fatigue and brain functional connectivity. (Areas of the brain for which there is evidence of relation to fatigue are the thalamus and middle frontal cortex, fronto-parietal and cingulo-opercular,  and default mode network, salience network, and thalamocortical loop areas.)

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, mechanism_mentally_tired/Directed_attention_fatigue_3.txt
> Anatomy[edit]<br>Directed attention, or voluntary attention, requires a great deal of concentration and focus, and is employed in tasks such as problem solving. This type of attention employs the inhibitory mechanisms of the brain, which help block incoming stimuli that are unrelated to the task at hand. Several parts of the brain are involved in maintaining directed attention, primarily those located in the frontal lobe and the parietal lobe of the brain. Specifically, the mechanism of directed attention employs the prefrontal cortex (PFC), the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the brain stem's basal ganglia. Some fMRI studies have shown that directed attention involves changes in the anterior cingulate cortex and the lateral prefrontal cortex, perhaps as a consequence of increased connectivity between these two areas. Evidence also suggests that the right inferior frontal cortex (IFC) plays a specialized role in response inhibition. It seems that this region plays a key role in the integration of bottom-up response-related information and facilitates goal-directed behavior.<br>While these areas of the brain are known to be involved in DAF, their specific molecular mechanisms in the perpetuation of DAF symptoms are not yet known.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 7, mechanism_mentally_tired/Directed_attention_fatigue_1.txt
> Symptoms and signs[edit]<br>Extreme levels of mental fatigue lead to an inability to perform regular tasks and irritability. Studies that require participants to carry out attention-demanding tasks under conditions of high distraction reveal how unpleasant a mentally fatigued person can be. After exposure to such an experience, individuals are less likely to help someone in need. They are also more aggressive, less tolerant, and less sensitive to socially important cues. Fatigue that is experienced by participants of these kinds of studies is induced by attention-intensive tasks, and the observed effects of such fatigue are correlated with decline in inhibitory control. Signs of Directed Attention Fatigue include temporarily feeling unusually distractible, impatient, forgetful, or cranky when there is no associated illness. In more severe forms, it can lead to bad judgment, apathy, or accidents, and can contribute to increased stress levels.<br>There are 6 major areas of mental processing that are affected during onset of DAF, which are as follows:<br>Input — One may experience misperception and miss social cues.<br>Thinking — One may experience feelings of restlessness, confusion, forgetfulness and/or decreased metacognition.<br>Behavior — One may experience feelings of impulsiveness and recklessness, and may find that they have a diminished level of threshold between thoughts and actions. One may also act out-of-character.<br>Executive Functioning — One may experience an inability to plan and make appropriate decisions and may experience impaired judgment ability.<br>Emotions — One may experience being short-tempered and feelings of unpleasantness.<br>Social Interactions — One may experience heightened irritability and increased frequency of antisocial feelings.<br>Overlap of symptoms from the six above categories is highly indicative of Directed Attention Fatigue.<br>Link to ADHD[edit]<br>The symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder closely mirror the symptoms of Directed Attention Fatigue. Like Directed Attention Fatigue, ADHD involves the prefrontal cortex. Specifically, the right prefrontal cortex is less active among children with ADHD.  Experimentation has shown that the severity of ADHD symptoms can be correlated to the degree of asymmetry between blood flow in the left and right prefrontal cortex. It is possible that DAF and ADHD involve disruption of the same underlying mechanism, and recent clinical evidence has found that the same treatments used for Directed Attention Fatigue may reduce the symptoms of ADHD in children. However, it is important to note that unlike ADHD, DAF is a temporary condition rather than a clinical disorder.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 76, mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_4.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>Undiagnosed[edit]<br>The cause of fatigue is often undiagnosed.<br>Idiopathic chronic fatigue[edit]<br><br>Main article: Idiopathic chronic fatigue<br>Idiopathic chronic fatigue is chronic fatigue not caused by a known proximate cause such as a discrete medical condition, drug or alcohol use.<br>Medications[edit]<br>Fatigue may be a side effect of certain medications (e.g., lithium salts, ciprofloxacin); beta blockers, which can induce exercise intolerance; and many cancer treatments, particularly chemotherapy and radiotherapy.<br>Drug use[edit]<br>Caffeine and alcohol can cause fatigue.<br>Sleep deprivation[edit]<br>Sleep deprivation and disruption is associated with subsequent fatigue.<br>Obesity[edit]<br>Obesity appears to correlate with greater fatigue incidence.<br>Psychological stress and conditions[edit]<br>Depression and adverse life events have been associated with fatigue.<br>Association with diseases[edit]<br>Fatigue is often associated with diseases and conditions. Some major categories of conditions that often list fatigue as a symptom include:<br>Autoimmune diseases, such as celiac disease, lupus, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, NMOSD, Sjögren's syndrome, spondyloarthropathy and UCTD. This population's primary concern is fatigue.<br>Anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder<br>Blood disorders, such as anemia and hemochromatosis<br>Brain injury<br>Cancer, in which case it is called cancer fatigue<br>Covid-19; long Covid.<br>Substance use disorders including alcohol use disorder<br>Depression and other mental disorders that feature depressed mood<br>Developmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder<br>Eating disorders, which can produce fatigue due to inadequate nutrition<br>Endocrine diseases or metabolic disorders: diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism and Addison's disease<br>Fibromyalgia<br>Gulf War syndrome<br>Heart failure<br>HIV<br>Inborn errors of metabolism such as fructose malabsorption.<br>Infectious diseases such as infectious mononucleosis or tuberculosis<br>Irritable bowel syndrome<br>Kidney diseases e.g. acute renal failure, chronic renal failure<br>Leukemia or lymphoma<br>Liver failure or liver diseases e.g. Hepatitis<br>Lyme disease<br>Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS)<br>Neurological disorders such as narcolepsy, Parkinson's disease, Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome and post-concussion syndrome<br>Physical trauma and other pain-causing conditions, such as arthritis<br>Sleep deprivation or sleep disorders, e.g. sleep apnea<br>Stroke<br>Thyroid disease such as hypothyroidism<br>Primary vs. secondary[edit]<br>In some areas it has been proposed that fatigue be separated into primary fatigue, caused directly by a disease process, and ordinary or secondary fatigue, caused by a range of causes including exertion and also secondary impacts on a person of having a disease (such as disrupted sleep). The ICD definition of fatigue<br> captures both types of fatigue; it includes fatigue that "occur[s] in the absence of... exertion... as a symptom of health conditions."

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 24, mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_0.txt
> Fatigue describes a state of tiredness (which is not sleepiness) or exhaustion. In general usage, fatigue often follows prolonged physical or mental activity. When fatigue occurs independently of physical or mental exertion, or does not resolve after rest or sleep, it may have other causes, such as a medical condition.<br>Fatigue (in a medical context) is complex and its cause is often unknown. Fatigue is associated with a wide variety of conditions including autoimmune disease, organ failure, chronic pain conditions, mood disorders, heart disease, infectious diseases, and post-infectious-disease states.<br>Fatigue (in the general usage sense of normal tiredness) can include both physical and mental fatigue. Physical fatigue results from muscle fatigue brought about by intense physical activity. Mental fatigue results from prolonged periods of cognitive activity which impairs cognitive ability. Mental fatigue can manifest as sleepiness, lethargy, or directed attention fatigue. Mental fatigue can also impair physical performance.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked 27, mechanism_mentally_tired/Directed_attention_fatigue_0.txt
> Directed attention fatigue (DAF) is a neuro-psychological phenomenon that results from overuse of the brain's inhibitory attention mechanisms, which handle incoming distractions while maintaining focus on a specific task. The greatest threat to a given focus of attention is competition from other stimuli that can cause a shift in focus. This is because one maintains focus on a particular thought by inhibiting all potential distractions and not by strengthening that central mental activity. Directed attention fatigue occurs when a particular part of the brain's global inhibitory system is overworked due to the suppression of increasing numbers of stimuli.  This temporary condition is not a clinical illness or a personality disorder. It is rather a temporary fatigue of the inhibitory mechanisms in the brain. According to inhibition theory, it is natural for one to alternate between periods of attention and distraction. Although one's efforts may involve very different tasks, each incoming stimulus calls upon the same directed attention mechanism.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked 0, mechanism_mentally_tired/Fatigue_2.txt
> Classification[edit]<br><br>See also: Central nervous system fatigue and Muscle fatigue<br>By type[edit]<br>Uni- or multi-dimensional[edit]<br>It is disputed whether there are different dimensions of fatigue, such as peripheral (muscle) and central (mental) fatigue, or whether fatigue is a uni-dimensional phenomenon that influences different aspects of human life.<br>A 2021 review considered that different 'types/subsets' of fatigue may exist and that patients normally present with more than one such 'type/subset". These different "types/subsets" of fatigue may be different dimensions of the same symptom, and the relative manifestations of each may depend on the relative contribution of different mechanisms. Inflammation may be the root causal mechanism in many cases.<br>Physical[edit]<br>Physical fatigue, or muscle fatigue, is the temporary physical inability of muscles to perform optimally. The onset of muscle fatigue during physical activity is gradual, and depends upon an individual's level of physical fitness – other factors include sleep deprivation and overall health. Physical fatigue can be caused by a lack of energy in the muscle, by a decrease of the efficiency of the neuromuscular junction or by a reduction of the drive originating from the central nervous system, and can be reversed by rest. The central component of fatigue is triggered by an increase of the level of serotonin in the central nervous system. During motor activity, serotonin released in synapses that contact motor neurons promotes muscle contraction. During high level of motor activity, the amount of serotonin released increases and a spillover occurs. Serotonin binds to extrasynaptic receptors located on the axonal initial segment of motor neurons with the result that nerve impulse initiation and thereby muscle contraction are inhibited.<br>Muscle strength testing can be used to determine the presence of a neuromuscular disease, but cannot determine its cause. Additional testing, such as electromyography, can provide diagnostic information, but information gained from muscle strength testing alone is not enough to diagnose most neuromuscular disorders.<br>Mental[edit]<br>Mental fatigue is a temporary inability to maintain optimal cognitive performance. The onset of mental fatigue during any cognitive activity is gradual, and depends upon an individual's cognitive ability, and also upon other factors, such as sleep deprivation and overall health.<br>Mental fatigue has also been shown to decrease physical performance. It can manifest as somnolence, lethargy, directed attention fatigue, or disengagement. Research also suggests that mental fatigue is closely linked to the concept of ego depletion, though the validity of the concept is disputed. For example, one pre-registered study of 686 participants found that after exerting mental effort, people are likely to disengage and become less interested in exerting further effort.<br>Decreased attention can also be described as a more or less decreased level of consciousness. In any case, this can be dangerous when performing tasks that require constant concentration, such as operating large vehicles. For instance, a person who is sufficiently somnolent may experience microsleep. However, objective cognitive testing can be used to differentiate the neurocognitive deficits of brain disease from those attributable to tiredness.<br>The perception of mental fatigue is believed to be modulated by the brain's reticular activating system (RAS).<br>Fatigue impacts a driver's reaction time, awareness of hazards around them and their attention. Drowsy drivers are three times more likely to be involved in a car crash, and being awake over 20 hours is the equivalent of driving with a blood-alcohol concentration level of 0.08%.<br>Neurological fatigue[edit]<br>People with multiple sclerosis experience a form of overwhelming tiredness that can occur at any time of the day, for any duration, and that does not necessarily recur in a recognizable pattern for any given patient, referred to as "neurological fatigue", and often as "multiple sclerosis fatigue" or "lassitude".<br>People with autoimmune diseases including inflammatory rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and primary Sjögren's syndrome, experience similar fatigue.<br>By timescale[edit]<br>Acute[edit]<br>Acute fatigue is that which is temporary and self-limited. Acute fatigue is most often caused by an infection such as the common cold and can be cognized as one part of the sickness behavior response occurring when the immune system fights an infection.<br>Other common causes of acute fatigue include depression and chemical causes, such as dehydration, poisoning, low blood sugar, or mineral or vitamin deficiencies.<br>Prolonged[edit]<br>Prolonged fatigue is a self-reported, persistent (constant) fatigue lasting at least one month.<br>Chronic[edit]<br>Chronic fatigue is a self-reported fatigue lasting at least 6 consecutive months. Chronic fatigue may be either persistent or relapsing. Chronic fatigue is a symptom of many chronic illnesses and of idiopathic chronic fatigue.<br>By effect[edit]<br>Fatigue can have significant negative impacts on quality of life. Profound and debilitating fatigue is the most common complaint reported among individuals with autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.<br>Fatigue that dissociates by quantum with disease activity represents a large health economic burden and unmet need to patients and to society.

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked 66, mechanism_mentally_tired/Directed_attention_fatigue_4.txt
> Diagnosis[edit]<br>Differential diagnosis[edit]<br>The concept of stress is used in many situations that would be described as mental fatigue, but the two concepts are distinctly different. Stress involves preparation for an anticipated event that has been evaluated as being threatening or harmful. Though mental fatigue may well result from stressful circumstances, it also arises out of hard work on a project one enjoys. In such cases, there is no anticipation of threat or harm present but still the result is fatigue. Characteristic of mental fatigue is difficulty focusing. For a mentally fatigued person, paying attention to something uninteresting is burdensome, even though focusing on something of great interest poses no particular challenge. Hence, there are two types of attention, distinguished in terms of the effort involved in their use and their changes in attentional shift:<br>Involuntary attention refers to attention that requires no effort at all, as when something exciting or interesting happens.<br>Voluntary attention, or directed attention, refers to attention that requires a great deal of effort, as when something is monotonous or boring.
