# Query `26`

*How is temperature sensed?
Can anyone summarize the mechanism by which when an object of a given temperature is placed in contact with, say, the skin on a human fingertip, the average speed of the particles of the object is converted into nerve signals to the brain?
If you can answer that, how about the format of how the temperature is encoded in the nerve signals?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) temperature_sensed/Transient_receptor_potential_channel_3.txt
> Function[edit]<br>TRP channels modulate ion entry driving forces and Ca and Mg transport machinery in the plasma membrane, where most of them are located.  TRPs have important interactions with other proteins and often form signaling complexes, the exact pathways of which are unknown. TRP channels were initially discovered in the trp mutant strain of the fruit fly Drosophila which displayed transient elevation of potential in response to light stimuli and were so named transient receptor potential channels. TRPML channels function as intracellular calcium release channels and thus serve an important role in organelle regulation. Importantly, many of these channels mediate a variety of sensations like the sensations of pain, temperature, different kinds of taste, pressure, and vision. In the body, some TRP channels are thought to behave like microscopic thermometers and are used in animals to sense hot or cold. TRPs act as sensors of osmotic pressure, volume, stretch, and vibration. TRPs have been seen to have complex multidimensional roles in sensory signaling. Many TRPs function as intracellular calcium release channels.<br>Pain and temperature sensation[edit]<br>TRP ion channels convert energy into action potentials in somatosensory nociceptors.  Thermo-TRP channels have a C-terminal domain that is responsible for thermosensation and have a specific interchangeable region that allows them to sense temperature stimuli that is tied to ligand regulatory processes.  Although most TRP channels are modulated by changes in temperature, some have a crucial role in temperature sensation. There are at least 6 different Thermo-TRP channels and each plays a different role.  For instance, TRPM8 relates to mechanisms of sensing cold, TRPV1 and TRPM3 contribute to heat and inflammation sensations, and TRPA1 facilitates many signaling pathways like sensory transduction, nociception, inflammation and oxidative stress.<br>Taste[edit]<br>TRPM5 is involved in taste signaling of sweet, bitter and umami tastes by modulating the signal pathway in type II taste receptor cells. TRPM5 is activated by the sweet glycosides found in the stevia plant.<br>Several other TRP channels play a significant role in chemosensation through sensory nerve endings in the mouth that are independent from taste buds. TRPA1 responds to mustard oil (allyl isothiocyanate), wasabi, and cinnamon, TRPA1 and TRPV1 responds to garlic (allicin), TRPV1 responds to chilli pepper (capsaicin), TRPM8 is activated by menthol, camphor, peppermint, and cooling agents; TRPV2 is activated by molecules (THC, CBD and CBN) found in marijuana.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_14_84.txt
> mechanoreceptor channel modification". Journal of Neuroscience. 8 (7): 2254–8. doi : 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-07-02254.1988. PMC 6569508. PMID 3249223. ^ Shettleworth, S. J. (2010). Cognition, Evolution, and Behavior (2nd ed.). New York: Oxford. ^ Galizia, Giovanni; Lledo, Pierre-Marie (2013). Neurosciences – From Molecule to Behavior. Heidelberg: Springer Spektrum.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) below_temperature_muscles_not_work/documentrepidrep1typ_4_5.txt
> Putnam & Bennett, 1982). One possible explanation for this response is<br>insufficient ca2+ release into fibres at higher temperatures. This is evidently not the<br>case, however, as activation heat, which represents the energetic cost of ca2+ release<br>and removal, is thermally independent, indicating no deficiency of release at higher<br>temperatures (Homsher, Mommaerts, Ricchiuti & Wallner, 1972; Rall, 1979).<br>Additionally, measurements with aequorin indicate high levels of ca2+ within the<br>fibre at

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) fake_auditory_signal/Auditory_Signal_Processing_16_1.txt
> sound.<br><br>Transduction mechanism in auditory or vestibular hair cell. Tilting the hair<br>cell towards the kinocilium opens the potassium ion channels. This changes the<br>receptor potential in the hair cell. The resulting emission of<br>neurotransmitters can elicit an action potential (AP) in the post-synaptic<br>cell.  Auditory haircells are very similar to those of the vestibular system.<br>Here an electron microscopy image of a frog's sacculus haircell.  Additional<br>example of the hair cells of a frog.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) vision_of_lights/Vision_and_Light_33_0.txt
> As the protein changes its geometry, it initiates a cascade of biochemical<br>reactions that results in changes in charge so that a large potential<br>difference builds up across the plasma membrane. This potential difference is<br>passed along to an adjoining nerve cell as an electrical impulse. The nerve<br>cell carries this impulse to the brain, where the visual information is<br>interpreted.<br><br>The light image is mapped on the surface of the retina by activating a series<br>of light-sensitive cells known as rods and cones or photoreceptors. The rods<br>and cones convert the light into electrical


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, temperature_sensed/Transient_receptor_potential_channel_3.txt
> Function[edit]<br>TRP channels modulate ion entry driving forces and Ca and Mg transport machinery in the plasma membrane, where most of them are located.  TRPs have important interactions with other proteins and often form signaling complexes, the exact pathways of which are unknown. TRP channels were initially discovered in the trp mutant strain of the fruit fly Drosophila which displayed transient elevation of potential in response to light stimuli and were so named transient receptor potential channels. TRPML channels function as intracellular calcium release channels and thus serve an important role in organelle regulation. Importantly, many of these channels mediate a variety of sensations like the sensations of pain, temperature, different kinds of taste, pressure, and vision. In the body, some TRP channels are thought to behave like microscopic thermometers and are used in animals to sense hot or cold. TRPs act as sensors of osmotic pressure, volume, stretch, and vibration. TRPs have been seen to have complex multidimensional roles in sensory signaling. Many TRPs function as intracellular calcium release channels.<br>Pain and temperature sensation[edit]<br>TRP ion channels convert energy into action potentials in somatosensory nociceptors.  Thermo-TRP channels have a C-terminal domain that is responsible for thermosensation and have a specific interchangeable region that allows them to sense temperature stimuli that is tied to ligand regulatory processes.  Although most TRP channels are modulated by changes in temperature, some have a crucial role in temperature sensation. There are at least 6 different Thermo-TRP channels and each plays a different role.  For instance, TRPM8 relates to mechanisms of sensing cold, TRPV1 and TRPM3 contribute to heat and inflammation sensations, and TRPA1 facilitates many signaling pathways like sensory transduction, nociception, inflammation and oxidative stress.<br>Taste[edit]<br>TRPM5 is involved in taste signaling of sweet, bitter and umami tastes by modulating the signal pathway in type II taste receptor cells. TRPM5 is activated by the sweet glycosides found in the stevia plant.<br>Several other TRP channels play a significant role in chemosensation through sensory nerve endings in the mouth that are independent from taste buds. TRPA1 responds to mustard oil (allyl isothiocyanate), wasabi, and cinnamon, TRPA1 and TRPV1 responds to garlic (allicin), TRPV1 responds to chilli pepper (capsaicin), TRPM8 is activated by menthol, camphor, peppermint, and cooling agents; TRPV2 is activated by molecules (THC, CBD and CBN) found in marijuana.
