# Query `27`

*Can we taste electrons?
Why does licking a 9-Volt battery elicits a taste sensation? Can taste be stimulated by electrical stimulation?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2500
recall_10: 0.2500
recall_25: 0.2500
recall_50: 0.2500
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1510
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1510
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1510
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1510
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1510
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0500
map_cut_10: 0.0500
map_cut_25: 0.0500
map_cut_50: 0.0500
map_cut_100: 0.0500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) vegetables_bitter/research-highlights-gene-makes-vegetables-taste-bitter_11_0.txt
> “Taste matters when it comes to altering your diet. If you aren’t appealing to<br>your tastes when you make dietary changes, it may be hard to stick with them,”<br>Smith said. “This research helps bring understanding that taste is an<br>important feature of food choice, which can greatly impact patient care.”<br><br>Share this story

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) neuron_onto/thesynapse_32_0.txt
> ##  Electrical or chemical transmission?

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) taste_electrons/Electricity_7_2.txt
> Lonely Universe, Cambridge University Press, pp. 182–85, ISBN 0-521-82704-3<br><br>^   <br>Stewart, Joseph (2001), Intermediate Electromagnetic Theory, World Scientific, p. 50, ISBN 981-02-4471-1<br><br>^ <br>Simpson, Brian (2003), Electrical Stimulation and the Relief of Pain, Elsevier Health Sciences, pp. 6–7, ISBN 0-444-51258-6<br><br>^ Diogenes Laertius, R.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) electrical_shock_freeze_up_muscles/Electricity_7_2.txt
> Lonely Universe, Cambridge University Press, pp. 182–85, ISBN 0-521-82704-3<br><br>^   <br>Stewart, Joseph (2001), Intermediate Electromagnetic Theory, World Scientific, p. 50, ISBN 981-02-4471-1<br><br>^ <br>Simpson, Brian (2003), Electrical Stimulation and the Relief of Pain, Elsevier Health Sciences, pp. 6–7, ISBN 0-444-51258-6<br><br>^ Diogenes Laertius, R.

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) taste_electrons/Taste_receptor_3.txt
> Mechanism of action[edit]<br>The standard bitter, sweet, or umami taste receptor is a G protein-coupled receptor with seven transmembrane domains. Ligand binding at the taste receptors activate second messenger cascades to depolarize the taste cell. Gustducin is the most common taste Gα subunit, having a major role in TAS2R bitter taste reception. Gustducin is a homologue for transducin, a G-protein involved in vision transduction. Additionally, taste receptors share the use of the TRPM5 ion channel, as well as a phospholipase PLCβ2.<br>Savory or glutamates (Umami)[edit]<br>The TAS1R1+TAS1R3 heterodimer receptor functions as an umami receptor, responding to L-amino acid binding, especially L-glutamate. The umami taste is most frequently associated with the food additive monosodium glutamate (MSG) and can be enhanced through the binding of inosine monophosphate (IMP) and guanosine monophosphate (GMP) molecules. TAS1R1+3 expressing cells are found mostly in the fungiform papillae at the tip and edges of the tongue and palate taste receptor cells in the roof of the mouth. These cells are shown to synapse upon the chorda tympani nerves to send their signals to the brain, although some activation of the glossopharyngeal nerve has been found.<br>Alternative candidate umami taste receptors include splice variants of metabotropic glutamate receptors, mGluR4 and mGluR1, and the NMDA receptor.<br>During the evolution of songbirds, the umami taste receptor has undergone structural modifications in the ligand binding site, enabling these birds to sense the sweet taste by this receptor.<br>Sweet[edit]<br>The diagram above depicts the signal transduction pathway of the sweet taste. Object A is a taste bud, object B is one taste cell of the taste bud, and object C is the neuron attached to the taste cell. I. Part I shows the reception of a molecule. 1. Sugar, the first messenger, binds to a protein receptor on the cell membrane. II. Part II shows the transduction of the relay molecules. 2. G Protein-coupled receptors, second messengers, are activated. 3. G Proteins activate adenylate cyclase, an enzyme, which increases the cAMP concentration. Depolarization occurs. 4. The energy, from step 3, is given to activate the K+, potassium, protein channels.III. Part III shows the response of the taste cell. 5. Ca+, calcium, protein channels is activated.6. The increased Ca+ concentration activates neurotransmitter vesicles. 7. The neuron connected to the taste bud is stimulated by the neurotransmitters.<br>The TAS1R2+TAS1R3 heterodimer receptor functions as the sweet receptor by binding to a wide variety of sugars and sugar substitutes. TAS1R2+3 expressing cells are found in circumvallate papillae and foliate papillae near the back of the tongue and palate taste receptor cells in the roof of the mouth. These cells are shown to synapse upon the chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves to send their signals to the brain. The TAS1R3 homodimer also functions as a sweet receptor in much the same way as TAS1R2+3 but has decreased sensitivity to sweet substances. Natural sugars are more easily detected by the TAS1R3 receptor than sugar substitutes. This may help explain why sugar and artificial sweeteners have different tastes. Genetic polymorphisms in TAS1R3 partly explain the difference in sweet taste perception and sugar consumption between people of African American ancestry and people of European and Asian ancestries.<br>Sensing of the sweet taste has changed throughout the evolution of different animals. Mammals sense the sweet taste by transferring the signal through the heterodimer T1R2/T1R3, the sweet taste receptor. In birds, however, the T1R2 monomer does not exist and they sense the sweet taste through the heterodimer T1R1/T1R3, the umami taste receptor, which has gone through modifications during their evolution. A recently conducted study showed that along the evolution stages of songbirds, there was a decrease in the ability to sense the umami taste, and an increase in the ability to sense the sweet taste, whereas the primordial songbird parent could only sense the umami taste. Researchers found a possible explanation for this phenomenon to be a structural change in the ligand binding site of the umami receptor between the sweet taste sensing and non-sensing songbirds. It is assumed that a mutation in the binding site occurred over time, which allowed them to sense the sweet taste through the umami taste receptor.<br>Bitter[edit]<br>The TAS2R proteins (InterPro: IPR007960) function as bitter taste receptors. There are 43 human TAS2R genes, each of which (excluding the five pseudogenes) lacks introns and codes for a GPCR protein. These proteins, as opposed to TAS1R proteins, have short extracellular domains and are located in circumvallate papillae, palate, foliate papillae, and epiglottis taste buds, with reduced expression in fungiform papillae. Though it is certain that multiple TAS2Rs are expressed in one taste receptor cell, it is still debated whether mammals can distinguish between the tastes of different bitter ligands. Some overlap must occur, however, as there are far more bitter compounds than there are TAS2R genes. Common bitter ligands include cycloheximide, denatonium, PROP (6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil), PTC (phenylthiocarbamide), and β-glucopyranosides.<br>Signal transduction of bitter stimuli is accomplished via the α-subunit of gustducin. This G protein subunit activates a taste phosphodiesterase and decreases cyclic nucleotide levels. Further steps in the transduction pathway are still unknown. The βγ-subunit of gustducin also mediates taste by activating IP3 (inositol triphosphate) and DAG (diglyceride). These second messengers may open gated ion channels or may cause release of internal calcium. Though all TAS2Rs are located in gustducin-containing cells, knockout of gustducin does not completely abolish sensitivity to bitter compounds, suggesting a redundant mechanism for bitter tasting (unsurprising given that a bitter taste generally signals the presence of a toxin). One proposed mechanism for gustducin-independent bitter tasting is via ion channel interaction by specific bitter ligands, similar to the ion channel interaction which occurs in the tasting of sour and salty stimuli.<br>One of the best-researched TAS2R proteins is TAS2R38, which contributes to the tasting of both PROP and PTC. It is the first taste receptor whose polymorphisms are shown to be responsible for differences in taste perception. Current studies are focused on determining other such taste phenotype-determining polymorphisms. More recent studies show that genetic polymorphisms in other bitter taste receptor genes influence bitter taste perception of caffeine, quinine and denatonium benzoate.<br>The diagram depicted above shows the signal transduction pathway of the bitter taste. Bitter taste has many different receptors and signal transduction pathways. Bitter indicates poison to animals. It is most similar to sweet. Object A is a taste bud, object B is one taste cell, and object C is a neuron attached to object B. I. Part I is the reception of a molecule.1. A bitter substance such as quinine, is consumed and binds to G Protein-coupled receptors.II. Part II is the transduction pathway 2. Gustducin, a G protein second messenger, is activated. 3. Phosphodiesterase, an enzyme, is then activated. 4. Cyclic nucleotide, cNMP, is used, lowering the concentration 5. Channels such as the K+, potassium, channels, close.III. Part III is the response of the taste cell. 6. This leads to increased levels of Ca+. 7. The neurotransmitters are activated. 8. The signal is sent to the neuron.<br>This section may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. The specific problem is: Need to check tone and formatting in this following paragraph. Please help improve this section if you can. (September 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>It has been demonstrated that bitterness receptors (TAS2R) play an important role in an innate immune system of airway (nose and sinuses) ciliated epithelium tissues. <br>This innate immune system adds an "active fortress" to the physical Immune system surface barrier.<br>This fixed immune system is activated by the binding of ligands to specific receptors.<br>These natural ligands are bacterial markers, for TAS2R38 example: acyl-homoserine lactones or quinolones produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. To defend against predators, some plants have produced mimic bacterial markers substances. These plant mimes are interpreted by the tongue, and the brain, as being bitterness.<br>The fixed immune system receptors are identical to the bitter taste receptors, TAS2R. Bitterness substances are agonist of TAS2R fixed immune system.<br><br>The innate immune system uses nitric oxide and defensins which are capable of destroying bacteria, and also viruses.<br>These fixed innate immune systems (Active Fortresses) are known in other epithelial tissues than upper airway (nose, sinuses, trachea, bronchi), for example: breast (mammary epithelial cells), gut and also human skin (keratinocytes)<br>Bitter molecules, their associated bitter taste receptors, and the sequences and homology models of bitter taste receptors, are available via BitterDB.<br>Sour[edit]<br>See also: Taste § Sourness<br>Historically it was thought that the sour taste was produced solely when free hydrogen ions (H) directly depolarised taste receptors. However, specific receptors for sour taste with other methods of action are now being proposed. The HCN channels were such a proposal; as they are cyclic nucleotide-gated channels. The two ion channels now suggested to contribute to sour taste are ASIC2 and TASK-1.<br>The diagram depicts the signal transduction pathway of the sour or salty taste. Object A is a taste bud, object B is a taste receptor cell within object A, and object C is the neuron attached to object B. I. Part I is the reception of hydrogen ions or sodium ions. 1. If the taste is sour, H+ ions, from an acidic substances, pass through their specific ion channel. Some can go through the Na+ channels. If the taste is salty Na+, sodium, molecules pass through the Na+ channels. Depolarization takes place II. Part II is the transduction pathway of the relay molecules.2. Cation, such as K+, channels are opened. III. Part III is the response of the cell. 3. An influx of Ca+ ions is activated.4. The Ca+ activates neurotransmitters. 5. A signal is sent to the neuron attached to the taste bud.<br>Salt[edit]<br><br>See also: Taste § Saltiness<br>Various receptors have also been proposed for salty tastes, along with the possible taste detection of lipids, complex carbohydrates, and water. Evidence for these receptors had been unconvincing in most mammal studies. For example, the proposed ENaC receptor for sodium detection can only be shown to contribute to sodium taste in Drosophila. However, proteolyzed forms of ENaC have been shown to function as a human salt taste receptor. Proteolysis is the process where a protein is cleaved. The mature form of ENaC is thought to be proteolyzed, however the characterization of which proteolyzed forms exist in which tissues is incomplete. Proteolysis of cells created to overexpress hetermulitmeric ENaC comprising alpha, beta and gamma subunits was used to identify compounds that selectively enhanced the activity of proteolyzed ENaC versus non-proteolyzed ENaC. Human sensory studies demonstrated that a compound that enhances proteolyzed ENaC functions to enhance the salty taste of table salt, or sodium chloride, confirming proteolyzed ENaC as the first human salt taste receptor.<br>Carbonation[edit]<br>An enzyme connected to the sour receptor transmits information about carbonated water.<br>Fat[edit]<br>A possible taste receptor for fat, CD36, has been identified. CD36 has been localized to the circumvallate and foliate papillae, which are present in taste buds and where lingual lipase is produced, and research has shown that the CD36 receptor binds long chain fatty acids. Differences in the amount of CD36 expression in human subjects was associated with their ability to taste fats, creating a case for the receptor's relationship to fat tasting. Further research into the CD36 receptor could be useful in determining the existence of a true fat-tasting receptor.<br>Free fatty acid receptor 4 (also termed GPR120) and to a much lesser extent free fatty acid receptor 1 (also termed GPR40) have been implicated to respond to oral fat, and their absence leads to reduced fat preference and reduced neuronal response to orally administered fatty acids.<br>TRPM5 has been shown to be involved in oral fat response and identified as a possible oral fat receptor, but recent evidence presents it as primarily a downstream actor.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 4, taste_electrons/Taste_receptor_3.txt
> Mechanism of action[edit]<br>The standard bitter, sweet, or umami taste receptor is a G protein-coupled receptor with seven transmembrane domains. Ligand binding at the taste receptors activate second messenger cascades to depolarize the taste cell. Gustducin is the most common taste Gα subunit, having a major role in TAS2R bitter taste reception. Gustducin is a homologue for transducin, a G-protein involved in vision transduction. Additionally, taste receptors share the use of the TRPM5 ion channel, as well as a phospholipase PLCβ2.<br>Savory or glutamates (Umami)[edit]<br>The TAS1R1+TAS1R3 heterodimer receptor functions as an umami receptor, responding to L-amino acid binding, especially L-glutamate. The umami taste is most frequently associated with the food additive monosodium glutamate (MSG) and can be enhanced through the binding of inosine monophosphate (IMP) and guanosine monophosphate (GMP) molecules. TAS1R1+3 expressing cells are found mostly in the fungiform papillae at the tip and edges of the tongue and palate taste receptor cells in the roof of the mouth. These cells are shown to synapse upon the chorda tympani nerves to send their signals to the brain, although some activation of the glossopharyngeal nerve has been found.<br>Alternative candidate umami taste receptors include splice variants of metabotropic glutamate receptors, mGluR4 and mGluR1, and the NMDA receptor.<br>During the evolution of songbirds, the umami taste receptor has undergone structural modifications in the ligand binding site, enabling these birds to sense the sweet taste by this receptor.<br>Sweet[edit]<br>The diagram above depicts the signal transduction pathway of the sweet taste. Object A is a taste bud, object B is one taste cell of the taste bud, and object C is the neuron attached to the taste cell. I. Part I shows the reception of a molecule. 1. Sugar, the first messenger, binds to a protein receptor on the cell membrane. II. Part II shows the transduction of the relay molecules. 2. G Protein-coupled receptors, second messengers, are activated. 3. G Proteins activate adenylate cyclase, an enzyme, which increases the cAMP concentration. Depolarization occurs. 4. The energy, from step 3, is given to activate the K+, potassium, protein channels.III. Part III shows the response of the taste cell. 5. Ca+, calcium, protein channels is activated.6. The increased Ca+ concentration activates neurotransmitter vesicles. 7. The neuron connected to the taste bud is stimulated by the neurotransmitters.<br>The TAS1R2+TAS1R3 heterodimer receptor functions as the sweet receptor by binding to a wide variety of sugars and sugar substitutes. TAS1R2+3 expressing cells are found in circumvallate papillae and foliate papillae near the back of the tongue and palate taste receptor cells in the roof of the mouth. These cells are shown to synapse upon the chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves to send their signals to the brain. The TAS1R3 homodimer also functions as a sweet receptor in much the same way as TAS1R2+3 but has decreased sensitivity to sweet substances. Natural sugars are more easily detected by the TAS1R3 receptor than sugar substitutes. This may help explain why sugar and artificial sweeteners have different tastes. Genetic polymorphisms in TAS1R3 partly explain the difference in sweet taste perception and sugar consumption between people of African American ancestry and people of European and Asian ancestries.<br>Sensing of the sweet taste has changed throughout the evolution of different animals. Mammals sense the sweet taste by transferring the signal through the heterodimer T1R2/T1R3, the sweet taste receptor. In birds, however, the T1R2 monomer does not exist and they sense the sweet taste through the heterodimer T1R1/T1R3, the umami taste receptor, which has gone through modifications during their evolution. A recently conducted study showed that along the evolution stages of songbirds, there was a decrease in the ability to sense the umami taste, and an increase in the ability to sense the sweet taste, whereas the primordial songbird parent could only sense the umami taste. Researchers found a possible explanation for this phenomenon to be a structural change in the ligand binding site of the umami receptor between the sweet taste sensing and non-sensing songbirds. It is assumed that a mutation in the binding site occurred over time, which allowed them to sense the sweet taste through the umami taste receptor.<br>Bitter[edit]<br>The TAS2R proteins (InterPro: IPR007960) function as bitter taste receptors. There are 43 human TAS2R genes, each of which (excluding the five pseudogenes) lacks introns and codes for a GPCR protein. These proteins, as opposed to TAS1R proteins, have short extracellular domains and are located in circumvallate papillae, palate, foliate papillae, and epiglottis taste buds, with reduced expression in fungiform papillae. Though it is certain that multiple TAS2Rs are expressed in one taste receptor cell, it is still debated whether mammals can distinguish between the tastes of different bitter ligands. Some overlap must occur, however, as there are far more bitter compounds than there are TAS2R genes. Common bitter ligands include cycloheximide, denatonium, PROP (6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil), PTC (phenylthiocarbamide), and β-glucopyranosides.<br>Signal transduction of bitter stimuli is accomplished via the α-subunit of gustducin. This G protein subunit activates a taste phosphodiesterase and decreases cyclic nucleotide levels. Further steps in the transduction pathway are still unknown. The βγ-subunit of gustducin also mediates taste by activating IP3 (inositol triphosphate) and DAG (diglyceride). These second messengers may open gated ion channels or may cause release of internal calcium. Though all TAS2Rs are located in gustducin-containing cells, knockout of gustducin does not completely abolish sensitivity to bitter compounds, suggesting a redundant mechanism for bitter tasting (unsurprising given that a bitter taste generally signals the presence of a toxin). One proposed mechanism for gustducin-independent bitter tasting is via ion channel interaction by specific bitter ligands, similar to the ion channel interaction which occurs in the tasting of sour and salty stimuli.<br>One of the best-researched TAS2R proteins is TAS2R38, which contributes to the tasting of both PROP and PTC. It is the first taste receptor whose polymorphisms are shown to be responsible for differences in taste perception. Current studies are focused on determining other such taste phenotype-determining polymorphisms. More recent studies show that genetic polymorphisms in other bitter taste receptor genes influence bitter taste perception of caffeine, quinine and denatonium benzoate.<br>The diagram depicted above shows the signal transduction pathway of the bitter taste. Bitter taste has many different receptors and signal transduction pathways. Bitter indicates poison to animals. It is most similar to sweet. Object A is a taste bud, object B is one taste cell, and object C is a neuron attached to object B. I. Part I is the reception of a molecule.1. A bitter substance such as quinine, is consumed and binds to G Protein-coupled receptors.II. Part II is the transduction pathway 2. Gustducin, a G protein second messenger, is activated. 3. Phosphodiesterase, an enzyme, is then activated. 4. Cyclic nucleotide, cNMP, is used, lowering the concentration 5. Channels such as the K+, potassium, channels, close.III. Part III is the response of the taste cell. 6. This leads to increased levels of Ca+. 7. The neurotransmitters are activated. 8. The signal is sent to the neuron.<br>This section may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. The specific problem is: Need to check tone and formatting in this following paragraph. Please help improve this section if you can. (September 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>It has been demonstrated that bitterness receptors (TAS2R) play an important role in an innate immune system of airway (nose and sinuses) ciliated epithelium tissues. <br>This innate immune system adds an "active fortress" to the physical Immune system surface barrier.<br>This fixed immune system is activated by the binding of ligands to specific receptors.<br>These natural ligands are bacterial markers, for TAS2R38 example: acyl-homoserine lactones or quinolones produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. To defend against predators, some plants have produced mimic bacterial markers substances. These plant mimes are interpreted by the tongue, and the brain, as being bitterness.<br>The fixed immune system receptors are identical to the bitter taste receptors, TAS2R. Bitterness substances are agonist of TAS2R fixed immune system.<br><br>The innate immune system uses nitric oxide and defensins which are capable of destroying bacteria, and also viruses.<br>These fixed innate immune systems (Active Fortresses) are known in other epithelial tissues than upper airway (nose, sinuses, trachea, bronchi), for example: breast (mammary epithelial cells), gut and also human skin (keratinocytes)<br>Bitter molecules, their associated bitter taste receptors, and the sequences and homology models of bitter taste receptors, are available via BitterDB.<br>Sour[edit]<br>See also: Taste § Sourness<br>Historically it was thought that the sour taste was produced solely when free hydrogen ions (H) directly depolarised taste receptors. However, specific receptors for sour taste with other methods of action are now being proposed. The HCN channels were such a proposal; as they are cyclic nucleotide-gated channels. The two ion channels now suggested to contribute to sour taste are ASIC2 and TASK-1.<br>The diagram depicts the signal transduction pathway of the sour or salty taste. Object A is a taste bud, object B is a taste receptor cell within object A, and object C is the neuron attached to object B. I. Part I is the reception of hydrogen ions or sodium ions. 1. If the taste is sour, H+ ions, from an acidic substances, pass through their specific ion channel. Some can go through the Na+ channels. If the taste is salty Na+, sodium, molecules pass through the Na+ channels. Depolarization takes place II. Part II is the transduction pathway of the relay molecules.2. Cation, such as K+, channels are opened. III. Part III is the response of the cell. 3. An influx of Ca+ ions is activated.4. The Ca+ activates neurotransmitters. 5. A signal is sent to the neuron attached to the taste bud.<br>Salt[edit]<br><br>See also: Taste § Saltiness<br>Various receptors have also been proposed for salty tastes, along with the possible taste detection of lipids, complex carbohydrates, and water. Evidence for these receptors had been unconvincing in most mammal studies. For example, the proposed ENaC receptor for sodium detection can only be shown to contribute to sodium taste in Drosophila. However, proteolyzed forms of ENaC have been shown to function as a human salt taste receptor. Proteolysis is the process where a protein is cleaved. The mature form of ENaC is thought to be proteolyzed, however the characterization of which proteolyzed forms exist in which tissues is incomplete. Proteolysis of cells created to overexpress hetermulitmeric ENaC comprising alpha, beta and gamma subunits was used to identify compounds that selectively enhanced the activity of proteolyzed ENaC versus non-proteolyzed ENaC. Human sensory studies demonstrated that a compound that enhances proteolyzed ENaC functions to enhance the salty taste of table salt, or sodium chloride, confirming proteolyzed ENaC as the first human salt taste receptor.<br>Carbonation[edit]<br>An enzyme connected to the sour receptor transmits information about carbonated water.<br>Fat[edit]<br>A possible taste receptor for fat, CD36, has been identified. CD36 has been localized to the circumvallate and foliate papillae, which are present in taste buds and where lingual lipase is produced, and research has shown that the CD36 receptor binds long chain fatty acids. Differences in the amount of CD36 expression in human subjects was associated with their ability to taste fats, creating a case for the receptor's relationship to fat tasting. Further research into the CD36 receptor could be useful in determining the existence of a true fat-tasting receptor.<br>Free fatty acid receptor 4 (also termed GPR120) and to a much lesser extent free fatty acid receptor 1 (also termed GPR40) have been implicated to respond to oral fat, and their absence leads to reduced fat preference and reduced neuronal response to orally administered fatty acids.<br>TRPM5 has been shown to be involved in oral fat response and identified as a possible oral fat receptor, but recent evidence presents it as primarily a downstream actor.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, taste_electrons/Depolarization_1.txt
> Physiology[edit]<br>This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>The process of depolarization is entirely dependent upon the intrinsic electrical nature of most cells. When a cell is at rest, the cell maintains what is known as a resting potential. The resting potential generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the cell having a negative charge compared to the exterior of the cell. To maintain this electrical imbalance, ions are transported across the cell's plasma membrane. The transport of the ions across the plasma membrane is accomplished through several different types of transmembrane proteins embedded in the cell's plasma membrane that function as pathways for ions both into and out of the cell, such as ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels.<br>Resting potential[edit]<br>The resting potential must be established within a cell before the cell can be depolarized. There are many mechanisms by which a cell can establish a resting potential, however there is a typical pattern of generating this resting potential that many cells follow. The generation of a negative resting potential within the cell involves the utilization of ion channels, ion pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels by the cell. However, the process of generating the resting potential within the cell also creates an environment outside the cell that favors depolarization. The sodium potassium pump is largely responsible for the optimization of conditions on both the interior and the exterior of the cell for depolarization. By pumping three positively charged sodium ions (Na) out of the cell for every two positively charged potassium ions (K) pumped into the cell, not only is the resting potential of the cell established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentration of potassium within the cell. While there is an excessive amount of potassium in the cell and sodium outside the cell, the generated resting potential maintains the closure of voltage-gated ion channels in the plasma membrane. This not only prevents the diffusion of ions pumped across the membrane but also involves the activity of potassium leak channels, allowing a controlled passive efflux of potassium ions, which contributes to the establishment of the negative resting potential. Additionally, despite the high concentration of positively-charged potassium ions, most cells contain internal components (of negative charge), which accumulate to establish a negative inner charge.<br>Depolarization[edit]<br>Voltage-gated sodium channel. Open channel (top) carries an influx of Na ions, giving rise to depolarization. As the channel becomes closed/inactivated (bottom), the depolarization ends.<br>After a cell has established a resting potential, that cell has the capacity to undergo depolarization. Depolarization is the process by which the membrane potential becomes less negative, facilitating the generation of an action potential. For this rapid change to take place within the interior of the cell, several events must occur along the plasma membrane of the cell. While the sodium–potassium pump continues to work, the voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels that had been closed while the cell was at resting potential are opened in response to an initial change in voltage. As a change in the neuronal charge leads to the opening of voltage-gated sodium channels, this results in an influx of sodium ions down their electrochemical gradient. Sodium ions enter the cell, and they contribute a positive charge to the cell interior, causing a change in the membrane potential from negative to positive. The initial sodium ion influx triggers the opening of additional sodium channels (positive-feedback loop), leading to further sodium ion transfer into the cell and sustaining the depolarization process until the positive equilibrium potential is reached. Sodium channels possess an inherent inactivation mechanism that prompts rapid reclosure, even as the membrane remains depolarized. During this equilibrium, the sodium channels enter an inactivated state, temporarily halting the influx of sodium ions until the membrane potential becomes negatively charged again.Once the cell's interior is sufficiently positively charged, depolarization concludes, and the channels close once more.<br>Repolarization[edit]<br>After a cell has been depolarized, it undergoes one final change in internal charge. Following depolarization, the voltage-gated sodium ion channels that had been open while the cell was undergoing depolarization close again. The increased positive charge within the cell now causes the potassium channels to open. Potassium ions (K) begin to move down the electrochemical gradient (in favor of the concentration gradient and the newly established electrical gradient). As potassium moves out of the cell the potential within the cell decreases and approaches its resting potential once more. The sodium potassium pump works continuously throughout this process.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, taste_electrons/Depolarization_3.txt
> Neurons[edit]<br>Structure of a neuron<br>Depolarization is essential to the functions of many cells in the human body, which is exemplified by the transmission of stimuli both within a neuron and between two neurons. The reception of stimuli, neural integration of those stimuli, and the neuron's response to stimuli all rely upon the ability of neurons to utilize depolarization to transmit stimuli either within a neuron or between neurons.<br>Response to stimulus[edit]<br>Stimuli to neurons can be physical, electrical, or chemical, and can either inhibit or excite the neuron being stimulated. An inhibitory stimulus is transmitted to the dendrite of a neuron, causing hyperpolarization of the neuron. The hyperpolarization following an inhibitory stimulus causes a further decrease in voltage within the neuron below the resting potential. By hyperpolarizing a neuron, an inhibitory stimulus results in a greater negative charge that must be overcome for depolarization to occur. Excitation stimuli, on the other hand, increases the voltage in the neuron, which leads to a neuron that is easier to depolarize than the same neuron in the resting state. Regardless of it being excitatory or inhibitory, the stimulus travels down the dendrites of a neuron to the cell body for integration.<br>Integration of stimuli[edit]<br>Summation of stimuli at an axon hillock<br>Once the stimuli have reached the cell body, the nerve must integrate the various stimuli before the nerve can respond. The stimuli that have traveled down the dendrites converge at the axon hillock, where they are summed to determine the neuronal response. If the sum of the stimuli reaches a certain voltage, known as the threshold potential, depolarization continues from the axon hillock down the axon.<br>Response[edit]<br>The surge of depolarization traveling from the axon hillock to the axon terminal is known as an action potential. Action potentials reach the axon terminal, where the action potential triggers the release of neurotransmitters from the neuron. The neurotransmitters that are released from the axon continue on to stimulate other cells such as other neurons or muscle cells. After an action potential travels down the axon of a neuron, the resting membrane potential of the axon must be restored before another action potential can travel the axon. This is known as the recovery period of the neuron, during which the neuron cannot transmit another action potential.<br>Rod cells of the eye[edit]<br>The importance and versatility of depolarization within cells can be seen in the relationship between rod cells in the eye and their associated neurons. When rod cells are in the dark, they are depolarized. In the rod cells, this depolarization is maintained by ion channels that remain open due to the higher voltage of the rod cell in the depolarized state. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the cell, maintaining the depolarized state. Rod cells in the depolarized state constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimulate the nerves associated with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod cells are exposed to light; the absorption of light by the rod cell causes the channels that had facilitated the entry of sodium and calcium into the rod cell to close. When these channels close, the rod cells produce fewer neurotransmitters, which is perceived by the brain as an increase in light. Therefore, in the case of rod cells and their associated neurons, depolarization actually prevents a signal from reaching the brain as opposed to stimulating the transmission of the signal.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, taste_electrons/Brainport_0.txt
> BrainPort is a technology whereby sensory information can be sent to one's brain through an electrode array which sits atop the tongue.  It was initially developed by Paul Bach-y-Rita as an aid to people's sense of balance, particularly of stroke victims. Bach-y-Rita founded Wicab in 1998.<br>It has also been developed for use as a visual aid, demonstrating its ability to allow a blind person to see his or her surroundings in polygonal and pixel form. In this scenario, a camera picks up the image of the surrounding, the information is processed by a chip which converts it into impulses which are sent  through an electrode array, via the tongue, to the person's brain. The human brain is able to interpret these impulses as visual signals and they are then redirected to the visual cortex, allowing the person to "see."  This is similar in part to how a cochlear implant works, in that it transmits electrical stimuli to a receiving device in the body.<br>The BrainPort V100 oral electronic vision aid was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on June 18, 2015.
