# Query `29`

*Why does my room suddenly look 'reddish'? My eyes seem to adapt to color
To get the context of this question clear, I would like you to walk through some parts of my house.
We'll start with one of my rooms as it appears normally - area Y
As evident, this part of my house has a creamish tinge to it, also the balcony door is open which further gives this room a yellow tint. Nothing special. I'll call it "area Y" (for yellow)*. Let's move on.
area G
Here we arrive in another part of my house which has greenish/blue shades acting as a sunlight blocker. This gives this entire place a greenish/blue tint as shown. (Ref. "area G")
So, now let's visit the area Y again. I am always surprised with what my eyes now see. This. {1}
enter image description here
You see, the same room, same lightning, yet the room now looks much more reddish than before! That's what intrigues me, why does it happen? Why my eyes suddenly become sensitive to red color?
I am not a biology student but I do know that our eyes have cones which specialize in color perception, and that there are different types of cone cells to perceive different types of colors (If I remember my high school biology correctly).
So, I somewhat get a feeling of what's happening inside my eyes (or the brain perhaps?). I suspect that as I go to area G, my eyes 'adapt' to the dominance of bluish/green light, either by decreasing pigment of blue cones or by increasing pigment of red cones, which makes my eyes more sensitive to the other end of visible light spectrum (red-yellow), causing an 'outburst' of red coloration in area 'Y'. Since pigments need time to degrade, by the time the red color pigment of my cones decreases, its activity is less than normal. It may be increased as the blue pigment's activity is less than normal and I see a reddish tinge for few moments.
This was a pure hypothesis from my part, but it seems correct to me. But why do my eyes even adapt to blue color? Why can't my eyes be unbiased towards colors?
{1} Obviously I photoshopped the red tint in the image how else could I have replicated my vision? Though it's not the most accurate description of what I see it's still a very close approximation.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2184
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0833
map_cut_25: 0.0833
map_cut_50: 0.0833
map_cut_100: 0.0833
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_smooth_transition/Opticalillusion_75_1.txt
> field, even though the object itself<br>did not change in luminosity. Similarly, the eye will compensate for color<br>contrast depending on the color cast of the surrounding area.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) evolutionary_advantage_of_red-green_color_blindness/Color_2_22.txt
> by Edwin H. Land in the 1970s and led to his retinex theory of color constancy.<br>Both phenomena are readily explained and mathematically modeled with modern theories of chromatic adaptation and color appearance (e.g. CIECAM02, iCAM). There is no need to dismiss the trichromatic theory of vision, but rather it can be enhanced with an understanding of how the visual system adapts to changes in the viewing environment.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) RGB_equivalent_for_smells/Color_2_22.txt
> by Edwin H. Land in the 1970s and led to his retinex theory of color constancy.<br>Both phenomena are readily explained and mathematically modeled with modern theories of chromatic adaptation and color appearance (e.g. CIECAM02, iCAM). There is no need to dismiss the trichromatic theory of vision, but rather it can be enhanced with an understanding of how the visual system adapts to changes in the viewing environment.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) blind_off_light/Adaptation_(eye)_5.txt
> Accelerating dark adaptation[edit]<br>Astronomer preserves night vision<br>Several different methods, with varying levels of evidence, have been purported or demonstrated to increase the rate at which vision can adapt in the dark.<br>Red lights and lenses[edit]<br>As a result of rod cells having a peak sensitivity at a wavelength of 500 nanometers they cannot perceive all colours on the visual spectrum. Because rod cells are insensitive to long wavelengths, the use of red lights and red lens glasses has become a common practice for accelerating dark adaptation. In order for dark adaptation to be significantly accelerated an individual should ideally begin this practice 30 minutes prior to entering a low luminescence setting. This practice will allow an individual to maintain their photopic (day) vision whilst preparing for scotopic vision. The insensitivity to red light will prevent the rod cells from further becoming bleached and allow for the rhodopsin photopigment to recharge back to its active conformation. Once an individual enters a dark setting most of their rod cells will already be accommodated to the dark and be able to transmit visual signals to the brain without an accommodation period.<br>The concept of red lenses for dark adaptation is based upon experimentation by Antoine Béclère and his early work with radiology. In 1916, the scientist Wilhelm Trendelenburg invented the first pair of red adaptation goggles for radiologists to adapt their eyes to view screens during fluoroscopic procedures.<br>Evolutionary context[edit]<br>Although many aspects of the human visual system remain uncertain, the theory of the evolution of rod and cone photopigments is agreed upon by most scientists. It is believed that the earliest visual pigments were those of cone photoreceptors, with rod opsin proteins evolving later. Following the evolution of mammals from their reptilian ancestors approximately 275 million years ago there was a nocturnal phase in which complex colour vision was lost. Being that these pro-mammals were nocturnal they increased their sensitivity in low luminescence settings and reduced their photopic system from tetrachromatic to dichromatic. The shift to a nocturnal lifestyle would demand more rod photoreceptors to absorb the blue light emitted by the moon during the night. It can be extrapolated that the high ratio of rods to cones present in modern human eyes was retained even after the shift from nocturnal back to diurnal.<br>It is believed that the emergence of trichromacy in primates occurred approximately 55 million years ago when the surface temperature of the planet began to rise. The primates were diurnal rather than nocturnal in nature and therefore required a more precise photopic visual system. A third cone photopigment was necessary to cover the entire visual spectrum enabling primates to better discriminate between fruits and detect those of the highest nutritional value.<br>Applications[edit]<br>Aviators commonly wear red lensed glasses or goggles prior to taking off in the dark to ensure that they are able to see outside of the aircraft. Furthermore, throughout flight the cockpit is illuminated with dim red lights. This lighting is to ensure that the pilot is able to read instruments and maps while maintaining scotopic vision for looking outside.<br>Submarines: Oftentimes submarines are "rigged for red", meaning that the boat is going to be surfacing or coming to periscope depth at night. During such times illumination within certain compartments is switched to red light to allow the eyes of the lookouts and officers to adjust to the darkness prior to looking outside of the boat. Additionally, compartments on a submarine may be illuminated with red light in order to simulate night conditions for the crew.<br>Vitamin A[edit]<br><br>See also: Vitamin A<br>11-cis-Retinal2<br>Vitamin A is necessary for proper functioning of the human eye. The photopigment rhodopsin found in human rod cells is composed of retinal, a form of vitamin A, bound to an opsin protein. Upon the absorption of light rhodopsin was decomposed into retinal and opsin through bleaching. Retinal could then have one of two fates: it could recombine with opsin to reform rhodopsin or it could be converted into free retinol. The American scientist George Wald was the first to recognize that the visual system expends vitamin A and is dependent upon diet for its replacement.<br>Vitamin A serves many functions in the human body outside of healthy vision. It is vital in maintaining a healthy immune system as well as promoting normal growth and development. The average adult male and female should consume 900 and 700 micrograms of vitamin A per day, respectively. Consumption above 3000 micrograms per day can lead to acute or chronic hypervitaminosis A.<br>Sources of vitamin A[edit]<br>Vitamin A is present in both animal and plant sources as retinoids and carotenoids, respectively. Retinoids can be used immediately by the body upon absorption into the cardiovascular system; however, plant-based carotenoids must be converted to retinol prior to utilization by the body. The highest animal-based sources of vitamin A are liver, dairy products, and fish. Fruits and vegetables containing high amounts of carotenoids are dark green, yellow, orange, and red in colour.<br>Evolutionary context[edit]<br>Vitamin A-based opsin proteins have been used for sensing light in organisms for most of evolutionary history beginning approximately 3 billion years ago. This feature has been passed from unicellular to multicellular organisms including Homo sapiens. This vitamin was most likely selected by evolution for sensing light because retinal causes a shift in photoreceptor absorbance to the visible light range. This shift in absorbance is especially important for life on Earth because it generally matches the peak irradiance of sunlight on its surface. A second reason why retinal evolved to be vital for human vision is because it undergoes a large conformational change when exposed to light. This conformational change is believed to make it easier for the photoreceptor protein to distinguish between its silent and activated state thus better controlling visual phototransduction.<br>Experimental evidence[edit]<br>Various studies have been conducted testing the effective of vitamin A supplementation on dark adaptation. In a study by Cideciyan et al. the length of dark adaptation was measured in a patient with systemic vitamin A deficiency (VAD) before and after vitamin A supplementation. The dark adaptation function was measured prior to supplementation, 1 day post-treatment, and 75 days post-treatment. It was observed that after merely one day of vitamin A supplementation the recovery kinetics of dark adaptation were significantly accelerated after photoreceptor bleaching. Dark adaptation was further accelerated following 75 days of treatment.<br>A subsequent study by Kemp et al. studied dark adaptation in subjects with primary biliary cirrhosis and Crohn's disease, both of whom had vitamin A deficiency. Within 8 days of oral supplementation of vitamin A both patients had their visual function restored to normal. Furthermore, adaptation kinetics significantly improved in both subjects following supplementation.<br>Later independent studies in Sorby fundus dystrophy confirmed the effect of Vitamin A on dark adaptation. Likewise, Vitamin A was shown to accelerate (to a lesser extent) dark adaptation in AMD.<br>Anthocyanins[edit]<br><br>See also: Anthocyanin<br>Anthocyanins make up the majority of the 4000 known flavonoid phytochemicals. This group of approximately 600 bioactive antioxidants carries the strongest physiological effects of any plant compound. These chemicals are also the most visible of the flavonoid phytochemicals because they provide bright blue, red, or purple pigmentation to many plant species. Anthocyanins also serve to protect the photosynthetic tissues from the direct rays of the sun.<br>In addition, the antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and vasoprotective properties of anthocyanins allow them to demonstrate diverse health effects. In humans, anthocyanins are effective for a variety of health conditions including neurological damage, atherosclerosis, diabetes, as well as visual impairment. Anthocyanins frequently interact with other phytochemicals to potentiate biological effects; therefore, contributions from individual biomolecules remains difficult to decipher.<br>As a result of anthocyanins providing bright colouration to flowers, the plants containing these phytochemicals are naturally successful in attracting pollinators such as birds and bees. The fruits and vegetables produced by such plants are also brightly pigmented attracting animals to eat them and disperse the seeds. Due to this natural mechanism anthocyanin-containing plants are widely abundant in most areas of the world. The high abundance and distribution of anthocyanin-containing plants make it a natural food source for many animals. Through fossil evidence it is known that these compounds were eaten in high amounts by primitive hominins.<br>During World Wars I and II British Air Force aviators were known to consume extensive amounts of bilberry jam. The aviators consumed this anthocyanin-rich food due to its many visual benefits, included accelerated dark adaptation, which would be valuable for night bombing missions.<br>Food sources[edit]<br>Blackberry fruits<br>Brightly coloured fruits and vegetables are rich in anthocyanins. This makes sense intuitively because anthocyanins offer pigmentation to plants. Blackberries are the most anthocyanin-rich foods, containing 89-211 milligrams per 100 grams. Other foods that are rich in this phytochemical include red onions, blueberries, bilberries, red cabbage, and eggplant. The ingestion of any of these food sources will yield a variety of phytochemicals in addition to anthocyanins because they naturally exist together. The daily intake of anthocyanins is estimated to be approximately 200 milligrams in the average adult; however, this value can reach several grams per day if an individual is consuming flavonoid supplements.<br>Effect on dark adaptation[edit]<br>Anthocyanins accelerate dark adaptation in humans by enhancing the regeneration of the rod photopigment, rhodopsin. Anthocyanins accomplish this by binding directly to opsin upon the degradation of rhodopsin to its individual constituents by light. Once bound to opsin, the anthocyanin changes its structure thereby accelerating its access to the retinal binding pocket. By having a diet rich in anthocyanins an individual is able to generate rhodopsin in shorter periods of time because of the increased affinity of opsin to retinal. Through this mechanism an individual is able to accelerate dark adaptation and achieve night vision in a shorter period of time.<br>Supportive evidence[edit]<br>In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study conducted by Nakaishi et al. a powdered anthocyanin concentrate derived from black currants was provided to a number of participants. Participants received one of three doses of anthocyanins to measure if the result occurred in a dose-dependent manner. The period of dark adaptation was measured prior to and two hours following supplementation in all participants. Results from this experiment indicate that anthocyanins significantly accelerated dark adaptation at merely one dose level compared to the placebo. Observing the data as a whole Nakaishi et al. concluded that anthocyanins effectively reduced the dark adaptation period in a dose-dependent manner.<br>Contradictory evidence[edit]<br>Despite the fact that many scientists believe anthocyanins to be beneficial in accelerating dark adaptation in humans, a study conducted by Kalt et al. in 2014 showed blueberry anthocyanins have no effect. In this study two double-blind, placebo-controlled studies were conducted to examine dark adaptation following the intake of blueberry products. In neither study did the blueberry anthocyanin intake affect the length of dark adaptation. From these results Kalt et al. concluded that blueberry anthocyanins provide no significant difference to the dark adaptation component of human vision.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_176_0.txt
> 1.  ^   Zimmer, Carl (February 2012). [ "Our Strange, Important, Subconscious Light Detectors" ](https://www.discovermagazine.com/mind/the-brain-our-strange-important-subconscious-light-detectors). Discover Magazine . Retrieved  2012-05-05 .<br>2.  ^   Schwiegerling, Jim (2004). _Field guide to visual and ophthalmic optics_. SPIE FG. Bellingham, Wash: SPIE Press. [ ISBN ](


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 5, reddish_adapt_to_color/Afterimage_1.txt
> Negative afterimages[edit]<br>Negative afterimages are generated in the retina but may be modified like other retinal signals by neural adaptation of the retinal ganglion cells that carry signals from the retina of the eye to the rest of the brain.<br>Normally, any image is moved over the retina by small eye movements known as microsaccades before much adaptation can occur. However, if the image is very intense and brief, or if the image is large, or if the eye remains very steady, these small movements cannot keep the image on unadapted parts of the retina.<br>Afterimages can be seen when moving from a bright environment to a dim one, like walking indoors on a bright snowy day. They are accompanied by neural adaptation in the occipital lobe of the brain that function similar to color balance adjustments in photography. These adaptations attempt to keep vision consistent in dynamic lighting. Viewing a uniform background while adaptation is still occurring will allow an individual to see the afterimage because localized areas of vision are still being processed by the brain using adaptations that are no longer needed.<br>The Young-Helmholtz trichromatic theory of color vision postulated that there were three types of photoreceptors in the eye, each sensitive to a particular range of visible light: short-wavelength cones, medium-wavelength cones, and long-wavelength cones. Trichromatic theory, however, cannot explain all afterimage phenomena. Specifically, afterimages are the complementary hue of the adapting stimulus, and trichromatic theory fails to account for this fact.<br>The failure of trichromatic theory to account for afterimages indicates the need for an opponent-process theory such as that articulated by Ewald Hering (1878) and further developed by Hurvich and Jameson (1957). The opponent process theory states that the human visual system interprets color information by processing signals from cones and rods in an antagonistic manner. The opponent color theory is that there are four opponent channels: red versus cyan, green vs magenta, blue versus yellow, and black versus white. Responses to one color of an opponent channel are antagonistic to those of the other color. Therefore, a green image will produce a magenta afterimage. The green color adapts the green channel, so they produce a weaker signal. Anything resulting in less green is interpreted as its paired primary color, which is magenta (an equal mixture of red and blue).<br><br>Example video which produces a distorted illusion after one watches it and looks away. See motion aftereffect.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, reddish_adapt_to_color/Afterimage_0.txt
> An afterimage is an image that continues to appear in the eyes after a period of exposure to the original image. An afterimage may be a normal phenomenon (physiological afterimage) or may be pathological (palinopsia). Illusory palinopsia may be a pathological exaggeration of physiological afterimages. Afterimages occur because photochemical activity in the retina continues even when the eyes are no longer experiencing the original stimulus.<br>The remainder of this article refers to physiological afterimages. A common physiological afterimage is the dim area that seems to float before one's eyes after briefly looking into a light source, such as a camera flash. Palinopsia is a common symptom of visual snow.
