# Query `31`

*Did neanderthals need vitamin C from the diet?
Modern humans need to get vitamin c from the diet, because we do not make it ourselves. Did neanderthals produce vitamin c? At what point of evolution exactly was this ability lost?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1357
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3662
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3662
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3662
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0333
map_cut_25: 0.1365
map_cut_50: 0.1365
map_cut_100: 0.1365
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Vitamin_C_7_10.txt
> -lactone oxidase, the enzyme that catalyzes the last step of the ascorbic acid pathway outlined above. One explanation for the repeated loss of the ability to synthesize vitamin C is that it was the result of genetic drift; assuming that the diet was rich in vitamin C, natural selection would not act to preserve it.<br>In the case of the simians, it is thought that the loss of the ability to make vitamin C may have occurred much farther back in evolutionary history than the emergence of humans or even apes, since it evidently occurred soon after the appearance of the

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Vitamin_C_0_38.txt
> C in either the kidney or the liver. In all of the cases where genomic analysis was done on an ascorbic acid auxotroph, the origin of the change was found to be a result of loss-of-function mutations in the gene that encodes L-gulono-γ-lactone oxidase, the enzyme that catalyzes the last step of the ascorbic acid pathway outlined above. One explanation for the repeated loss of the ability to synthesize vitamin C is that it was the result of genetic drift; assuming that the diet was rich in vitamin

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Vitamin_C_7_9.txt
> , it is surprising that the ability to synthesize this molecule has not always been conserved. In fact, anthropoid primates, Cavia porcellus (guinea pigs), teleost fishes, most bats, and some passerine birds have all independently lost the ability to internally synthesize vitamin C in either the kidney or the liver. In all of the cases where genomic analysis was done on an ascorbic acid auxotroph, the origin of the change was found to be a result of loss-of-function mutations in the gene that encodes L-gulono-γ

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Vitamin_C_0_37.txt
> 2 mg/kg.<br>Ascorbic acid is a common enzymatic cofactor in mammals used in the synthesis of collagen, as well as a powerful reducing agent capable of rapidly scavenging a number of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Given that ascorbate has these important functions, it is surprising that the ability to synthesize this molecule has not always been conserved. In fact, anthropoid primates, Cavia porcellus (guinea pigs), teleost fishes, most bats, and some passerine birds have all independently lost the ability to internally synthesize vitamin

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Vitamin_C_7_6.txt
> mice.<br>Synthesis does not occur in most bat species, but there are at least two species, frugivorous bat Rousettus leschenaultii and insectivorous bat Hipposideros armiger, that retain (or regained) their ability of vitamin C production. A number of species of passerine birds also do not synthesize, but not all of them, and those that do not are not clearly related; it has been proposed that the ability was lost separately a number of times in birds. In particular, the ability to synthesize vitamin C is presumed


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 13, neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/L-gulonolactone_oxidase_3.txt
> Animal models[edit]<br>Studies of human diseases have benefited from the availability of small laboratory animal models. However, the tissues of animal models with a GULO gene generally have high levels of ascorbic acid and so are often only slightly influenced by exogenous vitamin C. This is a major handicap for studies involving the endogenous redox systems of primates and other animals that lack this gene.<br>Guinea pigs are a popular human model. They lost the ability to make GULO 20 million years ago.<br>In 1999, Maeda et al. genetically engineered mice with inactivated GULO gene. The mutant mice, like humans, entirely depend on dietary vitamin C, and they show changes indicating that the integrity of their vasculature is compromised. GULO mice have been used as a human model in multiple subsequent studies.<br>There have been successful attempts to activate lost enzymatic function in different animal species.   Various GULO mutants were also identified.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 17, neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/L-gulonolactone_oxidase_2.txt
> Consequences of loss[edit]<br>It is likely that some level of adaptation occurred after the loss of the GULO gene by primates. Erythrocyte Glut1 and associated dehydroascorbic acid uptake modulated by stomatin switch are unique traits of humans and the few other mammals that have lost the ability to synthesize ascorbic acid from glucose. As GLUT transporters and stomatin are ubiquitously distributed in different human cell types and tissues, similar interactions may occur in human cells other than erythrocytes.<br>Linus Pauling observed that after the loss of endogenous ascorbate production, apo(a) and Lp(a)  were greatly favored by evolution, acting as ascorbate surrogate, since the frequency of occurrence of elevated Lp(a) plasma levels in species that had lost the ability to synthesize ascorbate is great. Also, only primates share regulation of CAMP gene expression by vitamin D, which occurred after the loss of GULO gene.<br>Johnson et al. have hypothesized that the mutation of the GULOP pseudogene so that it stopped producing GULO may have been of benefit to early primates by increasing uric acid levels and enhancing fructose effects on weight gain and fat accumulation. With a shortage of food supplies this gave mutants a survival advantage.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 9, neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/L-gulonolactone_oxidase_1.txt
> Gulonolactone oxidase deficiency[edit]<br>The non-functional gulonolactone oxidase pseudogene (GULOP) was mapped to human chromosome 8p21, which corresponds to an evolutionarily conserved segment on either porcine chromosome 4 (SSC4) or 14 (SSC14). GULO produces the precursor to ascorbic acid, which spontaneously converts to the vitamin itself.<br>The loss of activity of the gene encoding L-gulonolactone oxidase (GULO) has occurred separately in the history of several species. GULO activity has been lost in some species of bats, but others retain it. The loss of this enzyme activity is responsible for the inability of guinea pigs to enzymatically synthesize vitamin C. Both these events happened independently of the loss in the haplorrhine suborder of primates, which includes humans.<br>The remnant of this non-functional gene with many mutations is still present in the genomes of guinea pigs and humans. It is unknown if remains of the gene exist in the bats who lack GULO activity. The function of GULO appears to have been lost several times, and possibly re-acquired, in several lines of passerine birds, where ability to make vitamin C varies from species to species.<br>Loss of GULO activity in the primate order occurred about 63 million years ago, at about the time it split into the suborders Haplorhini (which lost the enzyme activity) and Strepsirrhini (which retained it). The haplorhine ("simple-nosed") primates, which cannot make vitamin C enzymatically, include the tarsiers and the simians (apes, monkeys and humans). The strepsirrhine ("bent-nosed" or "wet-nosed") primates, which can still make vitamin C enzymatically, include lorises, galagos, pottos, and, to some extent, lemurs.<br>L-Gulonolactone oxidase deficiency has been called "hypoascorbemia" and is described by OMIM (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man) as "a public inborn error of metabolism", as it affects all humans. There exists a wide discrepancy between the amounts of ascorbic acid other primates consume and what are recommended as "reference intakes" for humans. In its patently pathological form, the effects of ascorbate deficiency are manifested as scurvy.
