# Query `34`

*Are single-celled organisms capable of learning?
I've read that the amoeba is capable of learning. Since these protists have no nervous system, it's safe to assume that even highly simplified learning mechanisms of the Aplysia are miles off in the evolutionary distance.
How does this species learn? I would presume that there is a complicated chain of receptor mediated transcription regulation, but what are the specifics? What types of receptors does an amoeba have to sense its environs?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0625
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0400
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.1667
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0740
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1301
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2260
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0104
map_cut_50: 0.0185
map_cut_100: 0.0332
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_50_7.txt
> 10.1007/s00442-013-2873-7. PMID 24390479. S2CID 5038227. ^ Wood, D.C. (1988). "Habituation in Stentor produced by mechanoreceptor channel modification". Journal of Neuroscience. 8 (7): 2254–8. doi : 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-07-02254.1988. PMC 6569508. PMID 3249223. ^ Shettleworth, S. J. (2010). Cognition, Evolution,

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_14_83.txt
> . ISBN 978-1-317-76280-5. ^ Gagliano, M.; et al. (2014). "Experience teaches plants to learn faster and forget slower in environments where it matters". Oecologia. 175 (1): 63–72. Bibcode : 2014Oecol.175...63G. doi : 10.1007/s00442-013-2873-7. PMID 24390479. S2CID 5038227. ^ Wood, D.C. (1988). "Habituation in Stentor produced by

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_7_14.txt
> that occur at a high rather than for stimuli that occur at a low rate as well as for the weak and strong stimuli, respectively. Habituation has been shown in essentially every species of animal, as well as the sensitive plant Mimosa pudica and the large protozoan Stentor coeruleus. This concept acts in direct opposition to sensitization. Sensitization [ edit ] Main article: Sensitization Sensitization is an example of non-associative learning in which the progressive amplification of a response follows repeated administrations of a stimulus. This is based on the notion that

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_14_141.txt
> for stimuli that occur at a high rather than for stimuli that occur at a low rate as well as for the weak and strong stimuli, respectively. Habituation has been shown in essentially every species of animal, as well as the sensitive plant Mimosa pudica and the large protozoan Stentor coeruleus. This concept acts in direct opposition to sensitization. Sensitization [ edit ] Main article: Sensitization Sensitization is an example of non-associative learning in which the progressive amplification of a response follows repeated administrations of a stimulus. This is based on the

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_63_0.txt
> Gagliano, Monica; Vyazovskiy, Vladyslav V.; Borbély, Alexander A.; Grimonprez, Mavra; Depczynski, Martial (2016-12-02). "Learning by Association in Plants". Scientific Reports. 6 (1): 38427. Bibcode : 2016NatSR...638427G. doi : 10.1038/srep38427. ISSN 2045-2322. PMC 5133544. PMID 27910933.<br><br>Lillemyr, O.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 40, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_5.txt
> To conclude, as we observed that anticipation at the cellular level<br>appears to be adaptive both in prokaryotes (E. coli) and eukaryotes<br>(S. cerevisiae), and under remote systems such as sugar metabolism<br>and stress response, we propose that it may be prevalent in a diverse<br>range of species. Asymmetric anticipation, along with associative<br>learning9<br>, memory25 and physiological adaptation26, represent a<br>powerful set of tools used by microorganisms to achieve a sophisticated environmental response.<br>METHODS SUMMARY<br>Strains. E. coli MG1655 was used for most experiments. An E. coli GFP reporter<br>library12 was used to monitor operon expression. The evolved E. coli strains were<br>described previously14<br>S. cerevisiae BY4741 (MATa; his3D1; leu2D0; met15D0; ura3D0) was used in all<br>yeast experiments. All deletion strains were obtained from the Saccharomyces<br>Genome Deletion Project27.<br>S. cerevisiae cross-protection. An overnight culture was diluted into fresh YPD<br>medium and grown to a concentration of 2 3 106 cells per ml. Cells were diluted<br>1:2 into the first stress (S1). Transfer into the second stress (S2) was done by<br>adding treated medium after centrifugation. Stresses were calibrated to achieve a<br>mild effect (,50% survival) for S1 and a severe effect (,0.5% survival) for S2<br>(Supplementary Table 1). Samples were taken from cultures at the end of each<br>treatment and plated. Each experiment was carried out in three repeats. The fold<br>protection was calculated as described in Supplementary Equation (1).<br>E. coli fitness advantage. Overnight cultures were diluted into M9-Gly plus S1<br>(for example, lactose; treated) or M9-Gly (untreated). After 3 h, population size<br>was determined and used to dilute (,1:100) an equal amount of cells into a new<br>growth medium containing low levels of S2 (for example, maltose) as a sole<br>carbon source. To account for a potential metabolic effect of residual S1, an<br>identical trace amount of S1 was added to the untreated growth medium. The<br>ratio treated/untreated after 2 h of growth was used as an indication of fitness<br>advantage originating from pre-exposure to S1. To rule out the possibility that<br>the growth advantage observed due to early exposure to lactose originates from<br>its metabolic value rather than its rule as a conditioning signal, we preformed a<br>control experiment (Supplementary Information).<br>Full Methods and any associated references are available in the online version of<br>the paper at www.nature.com/nature.<br>Received 25 March; accepted 7 May 2009.<br>Published online 17 June 2009.<br>1. Causton, H. C. et al. Remodeling of yeast genome expression in response to<br>environmental changes. Mol. Biol. Cell 12, 323–337 (2001).<br>2. Gasch, A. P. et al. Genomic expression programs in the response of yeast cells to<br>environmental changes. Mol. Biol. Cell 11, 4241–4257 (2000).<br>3. Cheung, K. J. et al. A microarray-based antibiotic screen identifies a regulatory<br>role for supercoiling in the osmotic stress response of Escherichia coli. Genome Res.<br>13, 206–215 (2003).<br>4. Tirosh, I., Weinberger, A., Carmi, M. & Barkai, N. A genetic signature of<br>interspecies variations in gene expression. Nature Genet. 38, 830–834 (2006).<br>NATURE| Vol 460| 9 July 2009 ARTICLES<br>223

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_2.txt
> 1.00<br>Normalized promoter activity<br>Wild-type strain<br>Added sugar:<br>Lactose<br>Maltose<br>None<br>a<br>0<br>0.25<br>0.50<br>0.75<br>1.00<br>GFP-fused promoter<br>b Evolved strain<br>Figure 2 | Conditioned response in E. coli sugar metabolism. Promoter<br>activity in wild type (a) and the evolved strain (b). Colours mark the added<br>sugar. Error bars denote standard deviation of four repeats. Promoter<br>activities of four out of five maltose operons in wild type are significantly<br>higher under lactose relative to the untreated culture (t-test, P , 0.01<br>according to a Bonferroni adjustment). In contrast, none of the promoters<br>show increased activity in the evolved strain. The experiment was done in<br>M9-Glu medium and was repeated using glycerol as a background carbon<br>source (Supplementary Fig. 3) and further verified using quantitative<br>polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription (RT–PCR)<br>(Supplementary Figs 2 and 4).<br>Evolved<br>0.98<br>0.99<br>1.00<br>1.01<br>1.02<br>1.03<br>1.04<br>Fitness advantage<br>Observed effect:<br>Directionality<br>Specificity<br>Extinction<br>Lac<br>Mal<br>Mal<br>Lac<br>Gal<br>Mal<br>Suc<br>Mal<br>Lac<br>Mal<br>Wild type<br>Figure 3 | Fitness in an alternating sugar environment. Two isogenic<br>populations were grown on M9-Gly either supplemented with a sugar as S1<br>(treated) or not (untreated). An equal amount of cells was diluted into media<br>containing the second sugar (S2) as a sole carbon source. The ratio treated/<br>untreated (after 2 h) represents the fitness advantage originating from preexposure to S1. The error bars denote standard deviation of three repeats. All<br>ratios are normalized to the ratio measured in a control experiment in which<br>S2 was glycerol (Methods). A significant fitness advantage was observed only<br>in the transfer of wild-type cells from lactose to maltose (P 5 0.02, t-test).<br>NATURE| Vol 460| 9 July 2009 ARTICLES<br>221<br>©2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved<br>observed in the wild type due to exposure to lactose before maltose is<br>lost in the evolved strain that features extinction (Fig. 3).<br>Finally, as required by the specificity criterion, we ensured that<br>pre-exposure to other sugars does not improve growth of cells upon<br>transfer to maltose. As can be seen in Fig. 3, two alternative related<br>carbon sources, galactose and sucrose, cannot substitute lactose as a<br>preceding signal before maltose. This indicates that the observed<br>anticipation evolved in response to the specific stimuli pair that is<br>presented to the organism in its ecological niche. In summary, we<br>conclude that anticipation of subsequent carbon source changes is an<br>adaptive trait that has been selected by the natural ecology of E. coli.<br>The shift from fermentation to respiration in yeast<br>We next proceeded to a more complicated case that may also manifest environmental change anticipation. We examined how environmental anticipation is encoded in the regulatory network of<br>S. cerevisiae, and whether this response strategy has been selected<br>for because of a net fitness advantage it entails. We examined conditions that emulate some of the stresses that occur during the process<br>of alcoholic brew production, such as wine, by yeast15: Fig. 4a<br>describes this process, which starts at a highly osmotic and low pH<br>environment, followed by potentially lethal temperature raise due to<br>vigorous fermentation and accumulation of ethanol, culminating in<br>the diauxic shift—the exhaustion of fermentable sugars (for example,<br>glucose) and the switch to oxidative respiration16–19. Respiration is<br>challenging to the cell because it eventually generates oxygen radicals20. We checked whether yeast cells can cope better with these<br>stresses provided that they appear in their natural temporal order,<br>that is, whether yeasts use early stresses as predictive signals for the<br>likely arrival of later stresses. Such behaviour would indicate that<br>yeast cells are preparing for later challenges even before they arise.<br>To address these questions we systematically studied the survival<br>of S. cerevisiae under stresses that comprise the switch from its<br>preferred catabolic state, fermentation, to the alternative one, respiration (Fig. 4). As a potential manifestation of anticipation, we<br>focused on the cross-protection phenotype between different stress<br>pairs21,22. A cross-protection phenotype between two stresses exists if<br>pre-exposure to one stress improves the survival of cells under a<br>subsequent stress. Under our hypothesis we expect an asymmetrical<br>cross-protection phenotype between stress pairs. Particularly, we<br>predict that directionality of cross-protection will be in accordance<br>with the order of events during the transition from fermentation to<br>respiration. For example, because heat shock and ethanol accumulation precede oxidative stress in the ecology, we expect improved<br>survival under oxidative stress if it is preceded by either heat shock<br>or ethanol stress, yet we do not expect cross-protection if the stresses<br>are applied in the reverse order. Figure 4a shows the measured protection phenotype systematically tested for stresses that occur before<br>and after the diauxic shift. In accordance with our hypothesis, we<br>observe that the cross-protection phenotype is indeed extremely<br>asymmetric and, most importantly, that the directionality of protection fits the natural temporal context. Specifically, for each stress pair<br>protection is always stronger in the direction found in the natural<br>environment, thus fulfilling the asymmetric fitness advantage criterion. In a more faithful emulation of the natural habitat we have<br>also applied the three stresses, heat shock, ethanol and oxidative<br>stress, sequentially and observed an equally high cross-protection<br>activity (Supplementary Information). Note that activation of the

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_3.txt
> Nitrogen depletion<br>High osmolarity<br>Glucose depletion<br>46<br>1.5<br>3<br>29<br>0.001<br>Grape must Fermentation Respiration<br>4 5 19<br>Wine production process (time)<br>31<br>Diauxic<br>shift<br>Low pH<br>Heat Ethanol Oxidative stress<br>a<br>0<br>Fold cross-protection<br>Copper Low<br>pH<br>High<br>osmolarity<br>Heat Ethanol Acetic<br>acid<br>High<br>pH<br>50<br>40<br>30<br>20<br>10<br>b<br>Figure 4 | Cross-protection in the context of the diauxic shift. a, Stress<br>sequence in the process of wine production and measured cross-protection<br>phenotype. ‘Must’ is the medium in the beginning of the wine production<br>process. The values denote the fold protection gained by pre-exposure to a<br>mild stress followed by a severe stress. Red and blue arrows mark crossprotection when stress order is in accordance with the ecology or in reverse<br>order, respectively. Green arrows denote auto-protection. b, Specificity of<br>cross-protection against oxidative stress. The columns mark the observed<br>fold cross-protection provided by exposure to mild stress before severe<br>oxidative stress. Error bars donate standard deviations of three repeats.<br>Normalized survival ratio<br>b<br>0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95 1.00<br>0<br>5<br>10<br>15<br>Number of strains<br>Acquired cluster<br>Required dynamics<br>15 30 45 60 75 90<br>0<br>0.5<br>1.0<br>15 30 45 60 75 90<br>0<br>0<br>0<br>Induction<br>Time (min)<br>Stimuli setup:<br>YPD OX<br>HS OX<br>HS YPD<br>OS OX<br>OS YPD<br>S1 S2<br>S1 S2<br>S1 S2<br>a<br>Figure 5 | Candidate genes underlying the asymmetrical protection<br>between heat and oxidative stresses. a, Genome-wide expression was<br>measured in response to sequential stress pairs (untreated, YPD; osmotic<br>stress, OS; heat shock, HS; oxidative stress, OX). The top panel marks the<br>expression dynamics of an ideal gene that may facilitate cross-protection<br>against oxidative stress. The bottom panel marks the mean profile of 300<br>genes matching the desired pattern (Methods). b, A histogram of sensitivity<br>values of 29 deletion strains to heat (orange) and oxidative (purple) stresses.<br>The survival of each strain was normalized to the survival of the wild type to<br>test for increased sensitivity (individual strain sensitivity is shown in<br>Supplementary Fig. 7 and Supplementary Table 5).<br>ARTICLES NATURE| Vol 460| 9 July 2009<br>222<br>©2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved<br>environmental stress response1,2, namely a set of genes that are transcribed in response to a wide spectrum of stresses, is less likely to<br>explain the observed cross-protection activity. Whereas the environmental stress response is more likely to result in a symmetrical<br>protection, we observe a very asymmetric effect. Furthermore, and as<br>required by the third criterion, we observe that protection against<br>oxidative stress is specific to stresses that precede respiration in the<br>natural environment, whereas stresses unrelated to the process do not<br>provide cross-protection (Fig. 4b).<br>We next investigated a potential molecular mechanism that might<br>account for the observed cross-protection capacity. We focused on<br>the pair of stresses that exhibits the strongest cross-protection phenotype, heat shock and oxidative stress, and measured genome-wide<br>gene expression in response to these stresses when they were introduced in isolation or one after the other. In particular, we applied a<br>heat shock as the first stress (S1), followed by an oxidative stress (S2).<br>As a control we also examined the response to oxidative stress that is<br>preceded by an osmotic stress, a condition we found not to crossprotect significantly against oxidative stress (Fig. 4b). We used these<br>series of events to define an ideal expression profile of genes that can<br>underlie the cross-protection phenotype and ultimately the anticipation capacity (Fig. 5a, see Methods for profile details). We also<br>defined a control profile, using the control osmotic stress (instead<br>of heat shock) as an early stimulus. Our search revealed a cluster of<br>300 genes with the desired profile (Fig. 5a). Consistent with asymmetric anticipation, this cluster shows a significant overlap with a set<br>of genes that are annotated in the literature (Proteome database) as<br>essential in oxidative stress but not in heat shock (P 5 0.013).<br>However, this cluster does not overlap significantly with a set of genes<br>that are annotated as essential in heat shock and not in oxidative<br>stress (P 5 0.2). Analysis of functional enrichment using Gene<br>Ontology annotations23 revealed a similar trend—a significant<br>enrichment of oxidative stress categories (Supplementary Table 3),<br>such as oxidoreductase activity, and many mitochondria-related categories, consistent with a known role of mitochondria for coping<br>with oxidative stress in yeasts24. However, no heat-shock-related categories were found to be enriched in this cluster. Reassuringly, the<br>genes that corresponded to the control profile (in which we still used<br>oxidative stress as an S2, yet with osmotic stress as an unprotective S1)<br>did not yield similar enrichment for oxidative-related activities<br>(Supplementary Table 4). This indicates that whereas an S1 stimulus<br>that provides cross-protection increases in advance the expression<br>level of genes relevant for the R2 response, a control S1 signal does<br>not affect these R2 genes.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 71, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_1.txt
> Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science Rehovot 76100, Israel. 2<br>Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv<br>69978, Israel. 3<br>Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science Rehovot 76100, Israel. 4<br>Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,<br>Massachusetts 02115, USA.<br>These authors contributed equally to this work.<br>S1 S2<br>R1 R2<br>Direct<br>regulation<br>S1 S2<br>R1 R2<br>Stochastic<br>switching<br>R1 R2<br>S1 S2<br>R1 R2<br>Symmetrical<br>anticipatory<br>regulation<br>S1 S2<br>R1 R2<br>Asymmetrical<br>anticipatory<br>regulation<br>Figure 1 | Four possible regulation strategies in response to environmental<br>stimuli. Under direct regulation, each of the stimuli, S1 and S2, activates<br>exclusively the responses R1 and R2, respectively. Under stochastic<br>switching, cells randomly sample either R1 or R2 in response to either S1 or<br>S2. Under symmetrical anticipatory regulation, each of the stimuli activates<br>both responses. Under asymmetrical anticipatory regulation, the stimulus<br>that usually appears first in the ecology activates both responses, whereas the<br>stimulus that appears later induces only the second response.<br>Vol 460| 9 July 2009| doi:10.1038/nature08112<br>220<br>©2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved<br>cost of preparation: pre-induction of genes needed to cope with S2 is<br>costly and not beneficial during S1. This indicates that early induction<br>is preserved due to a future benefit that is expected to exceed the cost,<br>upon encounter with S2. Third, specificity: the conditioned response is<br>specific to S1 and not to other unrelated stimuli, suggesting that anticipation evolved in response to the specific conditions of the ecological niche.<br>E. coli carbon source switch<br>During its life cycle E. coli alternates between two principal habitats,<br>intestines of mammals and water, sediment and soil10 (Supplementary Information). Focusing on the intestinal ecology reveals a predictable metabolic environment. Specifically, during passage along the<br>digestive tract, exposure to lactose precedes exposure to another sugar,<br>maltose11. We thus expect that this environment can select for asymmetric anticipation, so that bacteria that link the presence of lactose<br>with future exposure to maltose are expected to activate the maltose<br>genes already upon encounter with lactose. Such pre-induction is<br>expected to allow cells to better use maltose upon its encounter.<br>We start by examination of anticipatory behaviour at the molecular level. To test systematically the promoter activity of all relevant<br>operons in the presence of maltose and lactose we used an E. coli<br>promoter-fused green fluorescent protein (GFP) library previously<br>described12. Our experiments revealed the unidirectional regulation<br>pattern expected under a conditioned response strategy (Fig. 2a and<br>Supplementary Figs 1–4). Maltose operons, which are induced by<br>maltose, are also induced, but to a lower level, by lactose. We note<br>that the basic responsiveness of some of the maltose operons to<br>lactose is not restricted only to the E. coli strain used in our study13.<br>In contrast, and as expected by our hypothesis, the lactose operon<br>shows no response to maltose (Fig. 2a and Supplementary Figs 1–4).<br>The crucial question is whether the observed asymmetric response<br>strategy that implies anticipation is indeed adaptive—that is, whether<br>it could be selected for during evolution. Following the criteria outlined previously, we first validated that the conditioned response<br>indeed provides an asymmetric fitness advantage in an alternating<br>sugar environment. We monitored cell growth on maltose after an<br>initial growth phase on lactose. Reassuringly, we observed that the<br>wild-type strain displays a fitness advantage if growth on maltose was<br>preceded by growth on lactose (Fig. 3). We ensured that this advantage does not originate from the metabolic contribution of lactose as<br>a carbon source (Supplementary Information). In addition, and as<br>required by our first principle, we found that pre-exposure to maltose<br>before growth on lactose does not improve fitness (Fig. 3).<br>Our second criterion for adaptiveness requires that pre-induction<br>of the maltose genes is maladaptive or neutral during growth on<br>lactose. This criterion is crucial to rule out the possibility that the<br>maltose genes are induced during exposure to lactose simply because<br>they are needed during that phase. Built into the classical conditioning paradigm from the cognitive context is the possible extinction of<br>the association. To put in present case terms, it is expected that<br>repeated exposure to lactose without consequent arrival of maltose<br>would select for weakening of the conditioned response due to the<br>futile cost of preparation. Accordingly, we have examined laboratory-evolved strains of E. coli, which grew for 500 generations on<br>high levels of lactose yet without exposure to maltose14. We measured<br>the promoter activity of relevant operons in three lineages that<br>evolved independently under various lactose concentrations.<br>Notably, we found that, in all three lines, the maltose operons show<br>almost no activity in response to lactose (Fig. 2b and Supplementary<br>Fig. 5). Reassuringly, the strains seem to have preserved the ability to<br>activate the maltose genes in response to maltose itself (Supplementary Fig. 6), indicating that only the asymmetrical cross talk between<br>the two pathways was removed during this laboratory evolution<br>period. These results imply that the conditioning observed in the<br>wild-type strain is costly and that without a subsequent benefit that<br>should exceed this cost, purifying selection acts to eliminate this cross<br>talk. Consistent with the second criterion, the growth advantage LacZ MalE MalK MalP MalS MalZ<br>LacZ MalE MalK MalP MalS MalZ<br>0<br>0.25<br>0.50<br>0.75

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 85, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_4.txt
> We then tested whether induction of the conditioned gene set is<br>neutral in heat shock, as required by the second criterion. Towards<br>this aim we collected 29 strains, each of which is deleted for one of the<br>genes from the cluster described above, and tested their sensitivity to<br>heat shock and oxidative stress (Methods). Analysis of survival ratios<br>reveals that whereas 65% of the strains show increased sensitivity to<br>oxidative stress, none shows a significantly increased sensitivity to<br>heat shock relative to the wild-type strain (Fig. 5b and Supplementary<br>Fig. 7). This is a direct indication that the expression of many of the<br>heat-induced genes is at least neutral, if not maladaptive, under heat<br>shock. Taken together with the fact that these genes are essential<br>under oxidative stress, this experiment corroborates the claim that<br>an early preparation to oxidative stress during heat shock is adaptive<br>in this system.<br>Future outlook<br>An open question is how prevalent anticipatory regulation is in the<br>world of microorganisms. One way to address this issue is to develop<br>a mathematical framework that estimates the potential advantage of a<br>conditioned response in a given ecology. Intuitively, the added value<br>from anticipation depends both on environmental and on biological<br>parameters. Two cellular parameters, gain and cost, should be considered. A conditioned response is beneficial provided that benefit<br>gained from anticipation exceeds the cost of early preparation. These<br>parameters are in turn dependent on the typical time constants of the<br>environment, for example, the time gap between the appearances of<br>the two stimuli. Additionally, predictable environments in which<br>the stimuli are often sequentially coupled promote anticipation. A<br>simple equation captures the relationship between these variables<br>and their effect on the net fitness:<br>DF 5 p(B(Dt) 2 C(Dt)) 2 (1 2 p)(C(tS1)),<br>where DF is the difference in fitness between an anticipating cell and a<br>cell that adheres to direct regulation (Fig. 1), p is the probability that<br>S2 will occur given that S1 occurred, and B and C are functions<br>describing the benefit and cost of early preparation, respectively. Dt<br>is the length of the time interval between the appearance of S1 and S2,<br>and tS1 is the duration of the first stimulus. The dependence of fitness<br>on the interplay between the key factors is shown in Supplementary<br>Fig. 8. We note that quantitative predictions from the above phenomenological equation can be drawn by incorporating into the<br>model biologically meaningful and realistic parameters, such as measurable gain, cost and timescales (A.M. et al. in preparation).

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 15, organism_learn/adaptive_prediction_0.txt
> ARTICLES<br>Adaptive prediction of environmental<br>changes by microorganisms<br>Amir Mitchell1<br>, Gal H. Romano2<br>, Bella Groisman1<br>, Avihu Yona1<br>, Erez Dekel3<br>, Martin Kupiec2<br>, Orna Dahan1<br><br>& Yitzhak Pilpel1,4<br>Natural habitats of some microorganisms may fluctuate erratically, whereas others, which are more predictable, offer the<br>opportunity to prepare in advance for the next environmental change. In analogy to classical Pavlovian conditioning,<br>microorganisms may have evolved to anticipate environmental stimuli by adapting to their temporal order of appearance.<br>Here we present evidence for environmental change anticipation in two model microorganisms, Escherichia coli and<br>Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show that anticipation is an adaptive trait, because pre-exposure to the stimulus that typically<br>appears early in the ecology improves the organism’s fitness when encountered with a second stimulus. Additionally, we<br>observe loss of the conditioned response in E. coli strains that were repeatedly exposed in a laboratory evolution experiment<br>only to the first stimulus. Focusing on the molecular level reveals that the natural temporal order of stimuli is embedded in the<br>wiring of the regulatory network—early stimuli pre-induce genes that would be needed for later ones, yet later stimuli only<br>induce genes needed to cope with them. Our work indicates that environmental anticipation is an adaptive trait that was<br>repeatedly selected for during evolution and thus may be ubiquitous in biology.<br>Microorganisms are constantly faced with environmental stimuli and<br>stresses. The cellular response to such challenges has been intensively<br>studied in several model organisms1–4. The simplest response strategy<br>to a stimulus is to monitor the environment and to respond directly<br>to it using designated mechanisms (Fig. 1). The environmental stress<br>response in yeast represents a more complicated strategy in which the<br>responses to many stresses are partially overlapping1,2. Theoretical<br>work has shown that when a population of microorganisms evolves<br>under erratic environmental fluctuations, cells may not effectively<br>monitor the environment, but rather use stochasticity to randomly<br>alternate between potential states5 (Fig. 1). Stochastic switching<br>might thus ensure that a portion of the population is prepared in<br>advance for the unpredicted challenge6,7. However, other, more predictable, environments offer organisms the opportunity to adopt an<br>alternative regulation strategy of anticipating an environmental<br>change based on a preceding signal. The capacity of some complex<br>multicellular eukaryotes to capture the statistics that govern the temporal connection between events in their environment, known as<br>classical Pavlovian conditioning, serves as a central paradigm in the<br>study of learning8<br>. Here we ask whether genetic regulatory networks<br>of microorganisms adaptively evolved to capture the temporal connections between subsequent stimuli in their environment. Most<br>recently, ‘anticipatory regulation’ was discovered9 (Fig. 1)—an association between environmental changes in bacteria. Specifically, this<br>study investigated the response of E. coli to temperature increase that<br>is followed by a drop in oxygen availability upon its entry to the<br>digestive tract. Interestingly, these two signals show a symmetrical<br>associative regulation pattern—each signal affects the expression of<br>genes needed to cope with both (Fig. 1). Remarkably, the authors<br>successfully decoupled the two responses during a laboratory evolution experiment in which the two signals were presented out-ofphase from one another. The ability to decouple the two responses<br>is an indication that the coupling seen in the wild type is not a trivial<br>combined response to the two stresses.<br>Here we show that biological systems that react to a unidirectional<br>temporal order of environmental changes may manifest a more elaborate predictive capacity. This capacity is reflected in a corresponding<br>asymmetric response strategy between subsequent stimuli, denoted S1<br>and S2 hereafter, and their designated responses R1 and R2, respectively. The first stimulus, S1, activates both responses, R1 and R2, yet<br>because the second stimulus, S2, does not predict the appearance of S1,<br>it only activates its own response (Fig. 1). We propose three criteria to<br>determine whether the observed cross-regulation pattern forms an<br>adaptive anticipatory response strategy that could be selected for by<br>evolution. First, asymmetric fitness advantage: pre-exposure to S1<br>increases the fitness under S2, yet pre-exposure to S2 should not<br>enhance fitness upon subsequent growth on S1. This ensures that<br>the natural order of stimuli was captured during evolution. Second,<br>1
