# Query `37`

*Why doesn't water enter my body through my anus or genitals when swimming?
So when we swim, we can make water not enter through our nose and mouth, simply by holding our breath. However, the mouth and the nose aren't the only cavities. What about the anus and the genitals? They obviously can't "hold breath", so how do they stop water from entering?
I thought the reason is gravity, but then, people would be killed when diving because your butt is facing up, against the gravity.
Another explanation might be that the internal pressure is higher than the external one, but I fail to recall any organ that creates the pressure..*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0714
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3013
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3013
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3013
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0913
map_cut_50: 0.0913
map_cut_100: 0.0913
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_212_2.txt
> va "Vulva")<br> [ Anus ](/wiki/Human_anus "Human anus")

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Littlefinger_83_2.txt
> va "Vulva")<br> [ Anus ](/wiki/Human_anus "Human anus")

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Ringfinger_97_2.txt
> va "Vulva")<br> [ Anus ](/wiki/Human_anus "Human anus")

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) die_if_cannot_breathe/Breathing_4_5.txt
> routinely need to dive, such as penguins, seals and whales. It is also more effective in very young infants and children than in adults.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) breathe_out_of_one_nostril/Breathing_4_5.txt
> routinely need to dive, such as penguins, seals and whales. It is also more effective in very young infants and children than in adults.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 13, water_enter_anus/Urethral_sphincters_1.txt
> Function and sex differences[edit]<br>Main articles: External sphincter muscle of male urethra and External sphincter muscle of female urethra<br>In males and females, both internal and external urethral sphincters function to prevent the release of urine. The internal urethral sphincter controls involuntary urine flow from the bladder to the urethra, whereas the external urethral sphincter controls voluntary urine flow from the bladder to the urethra. Any damage to these muscles can lead to urinary incontinence. In males, the internal urethral sphincter has the additional function of preventing the flow of semen into the male bladder during ejaculation.<br>Females do have a more elaborate external sphincter muscle than males as it is made up of three parts: the sphincter urethrae, the urethrovaginal muscle, and the compressor urethrae. The urethrovaginal muscle fibers wrap around the vagina and urethra and contraction leads to constriction of both the vagina and the urethra. The origin of the compressor urethrae muscle is the right and left inferior pubic ramus and it wraps anteriorly around the urethra so when it contracts, it squeezes the urethra against the vagina. The external urethrae, like in males, wraps solely around the urethra.<br>Congenital abnormalities of the female urethra can be surgically repaired with vaginoplasty.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 17, water_enter_anus/Urethral_sphincters_0.txt
> The urethral sphincters are two muscles used to control the exit of urine in the urinary bladder through the urethra. The two muscles are either the male or female external urethral sphincter and the internal urethral sphincter. When either of these muscles contracts, the urethra is sealed shut.<br>The external urethral sphincter originates at the ischiopubic ramus and inserts into the intermeshing muscle fibers from the other side. It is controlled by the deep perineal branch of the  pudendal nerve.  Activity in the nerve fibers constricts the urethra.
