# Query `38`

*Could viruses be used as antibiotics?
Could we use viruses that only affect bacteria to act as antibiotics?
The more bacteria, the more times the virus divides, so the stronger it gets. Is this practical?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.6000
P_10: 0.3000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.7328
ndcg_cut_10: 0.7328
ndcg_cut_25: 0.7328
ndcg_cut_50: 0.7328
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7328
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.6389
map_cut_10: 0.6389
map_cut_25: 0.6389
map_cut_50: 0.6389
map_cut_100: 0.6389
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_4_6.txt
> and therefore, the emergence of phage-resistant mutants is frequent and unavoidable.<br>It is still unclear whether the wide use of phages would cause resistance similar to what has been observed for antibiotics. In theory, this is not very likely to occur, since phages are very specific, and therefore, their selective pressure would affect a very narrow group of bacteria. However, we should also consider the fact that many phage resistance systems are mounted on mobile genetic elements, including prophages and plasmids, and thus may spread quite rapidly even without direct selection. Nevertheless, in contrast to antibiotics

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_2.txt
> Potential benefits[edit]<br>Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages to treat bacterial infections.<br>Bacteriophage treatment offers a possible alternative to conventional antibiotic treatments for bacterial infection. It is conceivable that, although bacteria can develop resistance to phages, the resistance might be easier to overcome than resistance to antibiotics. Viruses, just like bacteria, can evolve resistance to different treatments.<br>Bacteriophages are very specific, targeting only one or a few strains of bacteria. Traditional antibiotics have a more wide-ranging effect, killing both harmful and useful bacteria, such as those facilitating food digestion. The species and strain specificity of bacteriophages makes it unlikely that harmless or useful bacteria will be killed when fighting an infection.<br>A few research groups in the West are engineering a broader-spectrum phage and also a variety of forms of MRSA treatments, including impregnated wound dressings, preventative treatment for burn victims, and phage-impregnated sutures. Enzybiotics are a new development at Rockefeller University that create enzymes from phages. Purified recombinant phage enzymes can be used as separate antibacterial agents in their own right.<br>Phage therapy also has the potential to prevent or treat infectious diseases of corals. This could mitigate the global coral decline.

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_0.txt
> Phage therapy, viral phage therapy, or phagotherapy is the therapeutic use of bacteriophages for the treatment of pathogenic bacterial infections. This therapeutic approach emerged at the beginning of the 20th century but was progressively replaced by the use of antibiotics in most parts of the world after the Second World War. Bacteriophages, known as phages, are a form of virus that attach to bacterial cells and inject their genome into the cell. The bacteria's production of the viral genome interferes with its ability to function, halting the bacterial infection. The bacterial cell causing the infection is unable to reproduce and instead produces additional phages. Phages are very selective in the strains of bacteria they are effective against.<br>Advantages include reduced side effects and reduced risk of the bacterium developing resistance, since bacteriophages are much more specific than antibiotics. They are typically harmless not only to the host organism but also to other beneficial bacteria, such as the gut microbiota, reducing the chances of opportunistic infections. They have a high therapeutic index; that is, phage therapy would be expected to give rise to few side effects, even at higher-than-therapeutic levels. Because phages replicate in vivo (in cells of living organism), a smaller effective dose can be used.<br>Disadvantages include the difficulty of finding an effective phage for a particular infection; a phage will kill a bacterium only if it matches the specific strain. However, virulent phages can be isolated much more easily than other compounds and natural products. Consequently, phage mixtures ("cocktails") are sometimes used to improve the chances of success. Alternatively, samples taken from recovering patients sometimes contain appropriate phages that can be grown to cure other patients infected with the same strain. Ongoing challenges include the need to increase phage collections from reference phage banks, the development of efficient phage screening methods for the fast identification of the therapeutic phage(s), the establishment of efficient phage therapy strategies to tackle infectious biofilms, the validation of feasible phage production protocols that assure quality and safety of phage preparations, and the guarantee of stability of phage preparations during manufacturing, storage, and transport.<br>Phages tend to be more successful than antibiotics where there is a biofilm covered by a polysaccharide layer, which antibiotics typically cannot penetrate. Phage therapy can disperse the biofilm generated by antibiotic-resistant bacteria. However, the interactions between phages and biofilms can be complex, with phages developing symbiotic as well as predatory relationships with biofilms.<br>Phages are currently being used therapeutically to treat bacterial infections that do not respond to conventional antibiotics, particularly in Russia and Georgia. There is also a phage therapy unit in Wrocław, Poland, established in 2005, which continues several-decades-long research by the Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the only such centre in a European Union country. Phages are the subject of renewed clinical attention in Western countries, such as the United States. In 2019, the United States Food and Drug Administration approved the first US clinical trial for intravenous phage therapy.<br>Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture. If the target host of a phage therapy treatment is not an animal, the term "biocontrol" (as in phage-mediated biocontrol of bacteria) is usually employed, rather than "phage therapy".

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_3.txt
> Applications[edit]<br>Collection[edit]<br>Phages for therapeutic use can be collected from environmental sources that likely contain high quantities of bacteria and bacteriophages, such as effluent outlets, sewage, or even soil. The samples are taken and applied to bacterial cultures that are to be targeted. If the bacteria die, the phages can be grown in liquid cultures.<br>Modes of treatment[edit]<br>Phages are "bacterium-specific", and therefore, it is necessary in many cases to take a swab from the patient and culture it prior to treatment. Occasionally, isolation of therapeutic phages can require a few months to complete, but clinics generally keep supplies of phage cocktails for the most common bacterial strains in a geographical area.<br>Phage cocktails are commonly sold in pharmacies in Eastern European countries, such as Russia and Georgia. The composition of bacteriophagic cocktails has been periodically modified to add phages effective against emerging pathogenic strains.<br>Phages in practice are applied orally, topically on infected wounds or spread onto surfaces, or during surgical procedures. Injection is rarely used, avoiding any risks of trace chemical contaminants that may be present from the bacteria amplification stage, and recognizing that the immune system naturally fights against viruses introduced into the bloodstream or lymphatic system.<br>Reviews of phage therapy indicate that more clinical and microbiological research is needed to meet current standards.<br>Clinical trials[edit]<br><br>This section needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (February 2022)<br>Funding for phage therapy research and clinical trials is generally insufficient and difficult to obtain, since it is a lengthy and complex process to patent bacteriophage products. Due to the specificity of phages, phage therapy would be most effective as a cocktail injection, a modality generally rejected by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Therefore, researchers and observers have predicted that if phage therapy is to gain traction, the FDA must change its regulatory stance on combination drug cocktails. Public awareness and education about phage therapy are generally limited to scientific or independent research rather than mainstream media.<br>In 2007, phase-1 and 2 clinical trials were completed at the Royal National Throat, Nose and Ear Hospital, London, for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections (otitis).<br>Phase-1 clinical trials were conducted at the Southwest Regional Wound Care Center of Lubbock, Texas, for a cocktail of phages against P. aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Escherichia coli, developed by Intralytix. PhagoBurn, a phase-1 and 2 trial of phage therapy against P. aeruginosa wound infection in France and Belgium in 2015–17, was terminated early due to lack of effectiveness.<br>Locus Biosciences has created a cocktail of three CRISPR-modified phages. A 2019 study examined its effectiveness against E. coli in the urinary tract, and a phase-1 trial was completed shortly before March 2021.  In February 2019, the FDA approved the first clinical trial of intravenously administered phage therapy in the United States.<br>In July 2020, the FDA approved the first clinical trial of nebulized phage therapy in the United States. This double-blind, placebo-controlled study at Yale University will be focused on treating P. aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis.<br>In February 2020, the FDA approved a clinical trial to evaluate bacteriophage therapy in patients with urinary tract infections. The study started in December 2020 and aims to identify ideal bacteriophage treatment regimens based on improvements in disease control rates.<br>In February 2021, the FDA approved a clinical trial to evaluate bacteriophage therapy in patients with chronic prosthetic joint infections (PJI). The study was to begin in October 2022 and be conducted by Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, in collaboration with the Mayo Clinic.<br>Administration[edit]<br>Phages can usually be freeze-dried and turned into pills without materially reducing efficiency. Temperature stability up to 55 °C and shelf lives of 14 months have been shown for some types of phages in pill form. Application in liquid form is possible, stored preferably in refrigerated vials. Oral administration works better when an antacid is included, as this increases the number of phages surviving passage through the stomach. Topical administration often involves application to gauzes that are laid on the area to be treated.<br>Successful treatments[edit]<br>Phages were used successfully at Yale University by Benjamin Chan to treat a Pseudomonas infection in 2016. Intravenous phage drip therapy was successfully used to treat a patient with multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii in Thornton Hospital at UC San Diego in 2017. Nebulized phage therapy has been used successfully to treat numerous patients with cystic fibrosis and multidrug-resistant bacteria at Yale University as part of their compassionate use program. In 2019, a Brownsville, Minnesota resident with a longstanding bacterial infection in his knee received a phage treatment at the Mayo Clinic that eliminated the need for amputation of his lower leg. Individualised phage therapy was also successfully used by Robert T. Schooley and others to treat a case of multi-drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii in 2015. In 2022, an individually adjusted phage-antibiotic combination as an antimicrobial resistance treatment was demonstrated and described in detail. The scientists called for scaling up the research and for further development of this approach.<br>Treatment of biofilm infections[edit]<br>The different steps at which phages may disrupt biofilm formation. The biofilm surrounding the bacteria would inhibit the ability of antibiotics to reach bacteria, but may have less impact on the phages.<br>Phage therapy is being used to great effect in the treatment of biofilm infections, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. From 78 recent cases of treatment of biofilm infections, 96% of patients saw clinical improvement using phage therapy, and 52% of patients saw complete symptom relief or a full expungement of the affecting bacteria. Biofilm infections are very challenging to treat with antibiotics. The biofilm matrix and surrounding bacterial membranes can bind to the antibiotics, preventing them from penetrating the biofilm. The matrix may contain enzymes that deactivate antibiotics. Biofilms also have low metabolic activity, which means antibiotics that target growing processes have much lower efficacy. These factors make phage therapy an enticing option for the treatment of such infections, and there are currently two ways to go about such treatment. The first is to isolate the initial bacteria and make a specific treatment phage to target it, while the second way is to use a combination of more general phages. The advantage of the second method is that it can easily be made commercially available for treatment, although there are some concerns that it may be substantially less effective.<br>The process of treating biofilms or more generic infections using phage therapy. Depending on the case, steps 2 and 3 may involve either specially tailored phages or more general  alternatives.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_4_8.txt
> be a strategy to circumvent phage resistance.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 2, virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_0.txt
> Phage therapy, viral phage therapy, or phagotherapy is the therapeutic use of bacteriophages for the treatment of pathogenic bacterial infections. This therapeutic approach emerged at the beginning of the 20th century but was progressively replaced by the use of antibiotics in most parts of the world after the Second World War. Bacteriophages, known as phages, are a form of virus that attach to bacterial cells and inject their genome into the cell. The bacteria's production of the viral genome interferes with its ability to function, halting the bacterial infection. The bacterial cell causing the infection is unable to reproduce and instead produces additional phages. Phages are very selective in the strains of bacteria they are effective against.<br>Advantages include reduced side effects and reduced risk of the bacterium developing resistance, since bacteriophages are much more specific than antibiotics. They are typically harmless not only to the host organism but also to other beneficial bacteria, such as the gut microbiota, reducing the chances of opportunistic infections. They have a high therapeutic index; that is, phage therapy would be expected to give rise to few side effects, even at higher-than-therapeutic levels. Because phages replicate in vivo (in cells of living organism), a smaller effective dose can be used.<br>Disadvantages include the difficulty of finding an effective phage for a particular infection; a phage will kill a bacterium only if it matches the specific strain. However, virulent phages can be isolated much more easily than other compounds and natural products. Consequently, phage mixtures ("cocktails") are sometimes used to improve the chances of success. Alternatively, samples taken from recovering patients sometimes contain appropriate phages that can be grown to cure other patients infected with the same strain. Ongoing challenges include the need to increase phage collections from reference phage banks, the development of efficient phage screening methods for the fast identification of the therapeutic phage(s), the establishment of efficient phage therapy strategies to tackle infectious biofilms, the validation of feasible phage production protocols that assure quality and safety of phage preparations, and the guarantee of stability of phage preparations during manufacturing, storage, and transport.<br>Phages tend to be more successful than antibiotics where there is a biofilm covered by a polysaccharide layer, which antibiotics typically cannot penetrate. Phage therapy can disperse the biofilm generated by antibiotic-resistant bacteria. However, the interactions between phages and biofilms can be complex, with phages developing symbiotic as well as predatory relationships with biofilms.<br>Phages are currently being used therapeutically to treat bacterial infections that do not respond to conventional antibiotics, particularly in Russia and Georgia. There is also a phage therapy unit in Wrocław, Poland, established in 2005, which continues several-decades-long research by the Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the only such centre in a European Union country. Phages are the subject of renewed clinical attention in Western countries, such as the United States. In 2019, the United States Food and Drug Administration approved the first US clinical trial for intravenous phage therapy.<br>Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture. If the target host of a phage therapy treatment is not an animal, the term "biocontrol" (as in phage-mediated biocontrol of bacteria) is usually employed, rather than "phage therapy".

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 1, virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_2.txt
> Potential benefits[edit]<br>Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages to treat bacterial infections.<br>Bacteriophage treatment offers a possible alternative to conventional antibiotic treatments for bacterial infection. It is conceivable that, although bacteria can develop resistance to phages, the resistance might be easier to overcome than resistance to antibiotics. Viruses, just like bacteria, can evolve resistance to different treatments.<br>Bacteriophages are very specific, targeting only one or a few strains of bacteria. Traditional antibiotics have a more wide-ranging effect, killing both harmful and useful bacteria, such as those facilitating food digestion. The species and strain specificity of bacteriophages makes it unlikely that harmless or useful bacteria will be killed when fighting an infection.<br>A few research groups in the West are engineering a broader-spectrum phage and also a variety of forms of MRSA treatments, including impregnated wound dressings, preventative treatment for burn victims, and phage-impregnated sutures. Enzybiotics are a new development at Rockefeller University that create enzymes from phages. Purified recombinant phage enzymes can be used as separate antibacterial agents in their own right.<br>Phage therapy also has the potential to prevent or treat infectious diseases of corals. This could mitigate the global coral decline.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 3, virus_used_as_antibiotics/Phage_therapy_3.txt
> Applications[edit]<br>Collection[edit]<br>Phages for therapeutic use can be collected from environmental sources that likely contain high quantities of bacteria and bacteriophages, such as effluent outlets, sewage, or even soil. The samples are taken and applied to bacterial cultures that are to be targeted. If the bacteria die, the phages can be grown in liquid cultures.<br>Modes of treatment[edit]<br>Phages are "bacterium-specific", and therefore, it is necessary in many cases to take a swab from the patient and culture it prior to treatment. Occasionally, isolation of therapeutic phages can require a few months to complete, but clinics generally keep supplies of phage cocktails for the most common bacterial strains in a geographical area.<br>Phage cocktails are commonly sold in pharmacies in Eastern European countries, such as Russia and Georgia. The composition of bacteriophagic cocktails has been periodically modified to add phages effective against emerging pathogenic strains.<br>Phages in practice are applied orally, topically on infected wounds or spread onto surfaces, or during surgical procedures. Injection is rarely used, avoiding any risks of trace chemical contaminants that may be present from the bacteria amplification stage, and recognizing that the immune system naturally fights against viruses introduced into the bloodstream or lymphatic system.<br>Reviews of phage therapy indicate that more clinical and microbiological research is needed to meet current standards.<br>Clinical trials[edit]<br><br>This section needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (February 2022)<br>Funding for phage therapy research and clinical trials is generally insufficient and difficult to obtain, since it is a lengthy and complex process to patent bacteriophage products. Due to the specificity of phages, phage therapy would be most effective as a cocktail injection, a modality generally rejected by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Therefore, researchers and observers have predicted that if phage therapy is to gain traction, the FDA must change its regulatory stance on combination drug cocktails. Public awareness and education about phage therapy are generally limited to scientific or independent research rather than mainstream media.<br>In 2007, phase-1 and 2 clinical trials were completed at the Royal National Throat, Nose and Ear Hospital, London, for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections (otitis).<br>Phase-1 clinical trials were conducted at the Southwest Regional Wound Care Center of Lubbock, Texas, for a cocktail of phages against P. aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Escherichia coli, developed by Intralytix. PhagoBurn, a phase-1 and 2 trial of phage therapy against P. aeruginosa wound infection in France and Belgium in 2015–17, was terminated early due to lack of effectiveness.<br>Locus Biosciences has created a cocktail of three CRISPR-modified phages. A 2019 study examined its effectiveness against E. coli in the urinary tract, and a phase-1 trial was completed shortly before March 2021.  In February 2019, the FDA approved the first clinical trial of intravenously administered phage therapy in the United States.<br>In July 2020, the FDA approved the first clinical trial of nebulized phage therapy in the United States. This double-blind, placebo-controlled study at Yale University will be focused on treating P. aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis.<br>In February 2020, the FDA approved a clinical trial to evaluate bacteriophage therapy in patients with urinary tract infections. The study started in December 2020 and aims to identify ideal bacteriophage treatment regimens based on improvements in disease control rates.<br>In February 2021, the FDA approved a clinical trial to evaluate bacteriophage therapy in patients with chronic prosthetic joint infections (PJI). The study was to begin in October 2022 and be conducted by Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, in collaboration with the Mayo Clinic.<br>Administration[edit]<br>Phages can usually be freeze-dried and turned into pills without materially reducing efficiency. Temperature stability up to 55 °C and shelf lives of 14 months have been shown for some types of phages in pill form. Application in liquid form is possible, stored preferably in refrigerated vials. Oral administration works better when an antacid is included, as this increases the number of phages surviving passage through the stomach. Topical administration often involves application to gauzes that are laid on the area to be treated.<br>Successful treatments[edit]<br>Phages were used successfully at Yale University by Benjamin Chan to treat a Pseudomonas infection in 2016. Intravenous phage drip therapy was successfully used to treat a patient with multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii in Thornton Hospital at UC San Diego in 2017. Nebulized phage therapy has been used successfully to treat numerous patients with cystic fibrosis and multidrug-resistant bacteria at Yale University as part of their compassionate use program. In 2019, a Brownsville, Minnesota resident with a longstanding bacterial infection in his knee received a phage treatment at the Mayo Clinic that eliminated the need for amputation of his lower leg. Individualised phage therapy was also successfully used by Robert T. Schooley and others to treat a case of multi-drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii in 2015. In 2022, an individually adjusted phage-antibiotic combination as an antimicrobial resistance treatment was demonstrated and described in detail. The scientists called for scaling up the research and for further development of this approach.<br>Treatment of biofilm infections[edit]<br>The different steps at which phages may disrupt biofilm formation. The biofilm surrounding the bacteria would inhibit the ability of antibiotics to reach bacteria, but may have less impact on the phages.<br>Phage therapy is being used to great effect in the treatment of biofilm infections, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. From 78 recent cases of treatment of biofilm infections, 96% of patients saw clinical improvement using phage therapy, and 52% of patients saw complete symptom relief or a full expungement of the affecting bacteria. Biofilm infections are very challenging to treat with antibiotics. The biofilm matrix and surrounding bacterial membranes can bind to the antibiotics, preventing them from penetrating the biofilm. The matrix may contain enzymes that deactivate antibiotics. Biofilms also have low metabolic activity, which means antibiotics that target growing processes have much lower efficacy. These factors make phage therapy an enticing option for the treatment of such infections, and there are currently two ways to go about such treatment. The first is to isolate the initial bacteria and make a specific treatment phage to target it, while the second way is to use a combination of more general phages. The advantage of the second method is that it can easily be made commercially available for treatment, although there are some concerns that it may be substantially less effective.<br>The process of treating biofilms or more generic infections using phage therapy. Depending on the case, steps 2 and 3 may involve either specially tailored phages or more general  alternatives.
