# Query `39`

*Why does UV radiation from the Sun cause skin cancer?
What is the specific mechanism makes non-ionizing UVA and UVB radiation carcinogenic? Can lower energy light, like visible light, be carcinogenic because of this mechanism, or is there some kind of threshold within spectrum at which electromagnetic radiation does not induce cancer in humans?
Ionizing radiation can be mutagenic, which can cause cancer. However, this only applies to high-energy electromagnetic radiation with photon energies exceeding about 5 eV, or about 248 nm. (The FCC defines this threshold even higher at 10 eV, or about 124 nm!) These photon energies correspond to UVC, which is blocked thoroughly by the atmosphere, meaning Sunlight does not appreciably contribute to the ionizing radiation we receive on Earth. Therefore, the mechanism with which solar UV radiation induces cancer must be different from higher energy electromagnetic radiation, right?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_25: 0.7701
ndcg_cut_50: 0.7701
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7701
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5714
map_cut_50: 0.5714
map_cut_100: 0.5714
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) UV_causes_skin_cancer/Pyrimidine_dimer_0.txt
> Pyrimidine dimers represent molecular lesions originating from thymine or cytosine bases within DNA, resulting from photochemical reactions. These lesions, commonly linked to direct DNA damage, are induced by ultraviolet light (UV), particularly UVC, result in the formation of covalent bonds between adjacent nitrogenous bases along the nucleotide chain near their carbon–carbon double bonds, the photo-coupled dimers are fluorescent. Such dimerization, which can also occur in double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) involving uracil or cytosine, leads to the creation of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) and 6–4 photoproducts. These pre-mutagenic lesions modify the DNA helix structure, resulting in abnormal non-canonical base pairing and, consequently, adjacent thymines or cytosines in DNA will form a cyclobutane ring when joined together and cause a distortion in the DNA. This distortion prevents DNA replication and transcription mechanisms beyond the dimerization site.<br>While up to 100 such reactions per second may transpire in a skin cell exposed to sunlight resulting in DNA damage, they are typically rectified promptly through DNA repair, such as through photolyase reactivation or nucleotide excision repair, with the latter being prevalent in humans. Conversely, certain bacteria utilize photolyase, powered by sunlight, to repair pyrimidine dimer-induced DNA damage. Unrepaired lesions may lead to erroneous nucleotide incorporation by polymerase machinery. Overwhelming DNA damage can precipitate mutations within an organism's genome, potentially culminating in cancer cell formation. Unrectified lesions may also interfere with polymerase function, induce transcription or replication errors, or halt replication. Notably, pyrimidine dimers contribute to sunburn and melanin production, and are a primary factor in melanoma development in humans.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) UV_causes_skin_cancer/50326-what-is-ultraviolet-light.html_9_7.txt
> the sun's rays turn into problem cells that don't die but keep proliferating as cancers. "The UV light causes random damages in the DNA and DNA repair process such that cells acquire the ability to avoid dying," said Chuang. The result is skin cancer, the most common form of cancer in the United States. People who get sunburned repeatedly are at much higher risk. The risk for the deadliest form of skin cancer, called melanoma, doubles for someone who has received five or more sunburns, according to the Skin Cancer Foundation. Other UV sources A number of artificial sources have

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) UV_causes_skin_cancer/uva-vs-uvb_24_0.txt
> The other 5 percent of UV rays are UVB. They have higher energy levels than UVA rays, and typically damage the outermost layers of your skin, causing sunburn. These rays directly damage DNA and are the cause of most skin cancers.<br><br>How we reviewed this article: Sources Healthline has strict sourcing guidelines and relies on peer-reviewed studies, academic research institutions, and medical associations. We avoid using tertiary references. You can learn more about how we ensure our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial policy. American Cancer Society. (2019). How do I protect myself

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) UV_causes_skin_cancer/uva-vs-uvb_3_18.txt
> exposure level of types A and B ultraviolet radiation: An environmental skin carcinogen. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4389328/ Sunscreen FAQs. (n.d.). https://www.aad.org/media/stats/prevention-and-care/sunscreen-faqs Traveisan A, et al. (2006). Unusual high exposure to ultraviolet-C radiation. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1562/2005-10-27-ra-728 UV radiation

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) UV_causes_skin_cancer/uva-vs-uvb_4_18.txt
> exposure level of types A and B ultraviolet radiation: An environmental skin carcinogen. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4389328/ Sunscreen FAQs. (n.d.). https://www.aad.org/media/stats/prevention-and-care/sunscreen-faqs Traveisan A, et al. (2006). Unusual high exposure to ultraviolet-C radiation. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1562/2005-10-27-ra-728 UV radiation


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, UV_causes_skin_cancer/Pyrimidine_dimer_0.txt
> Pyrimidine dimers represent molecular lesions originating from thymine or cytosine bases within DNA, resulting from photochemical reactions. These lesions, commonly linked to direct DNA damage, are induced by ultraviolet light (UV), particularly UVC, result in the formation of covalent bonds between adjacent nitrogenous bases along the nucleotide chain near their carbon–carbon double bonds, the photo-coupled dimers are fluorescent. Such dimerization, which can also occur in double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) involving uracil or cytosine, leads to the creation of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) and 6–4 photoproducts. These pre-mutagenic lesions modify the DNA helix structure, resulting in abnormal non-canonical base pairing and, consequently, adjacent thymines or cytosines in DNA will form a cyclobutane ring when joined together and cause a distortion in the DNA. This distortion prevents DNA replication and transcription mechanisms beyond the dimerization site.<br>While up to 100 such reactions per second may transpire in a skin cell exposed to sunlight resulting in DNA damage, they are typically rectified promptly through DNA repair, such as through photolyase reactivation or nucleotide excision repair, with the latter being prevalent in humans. Conversely, certain bacteria utilize photolyase, powered by sunlight, to repair pyrimidine dimer-induced DNA damage. Unrepaired lesions may lead to erroneous nucleotide incorporation by polymerase machinery. Overwhelming DNA damage can precipitate mutations within an organism's genome, potentially culminating in cancer cell formation. Unrectified lesions may also interfere with polymerase function, induce transcription or replication errors, or halt replication. Notably, pyrimidine dimers contribute to sunburn and melanin production, and are a primary factor in melanoma development in humans.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 13, UV_causes_skin_cancer/Pyrimidine_dimer_4.txt
> Effect of topical sunscreen and effect of absorbed sunscreen[edit]<br>Direct DNA damage is reduced by sunscreen, which also reduces the risk of developing a sunburn.  When the sunscreen is at the surface of the skin, it filters the UV rays, which attenuates the intensity. Even when the sunscreen molecules have penetrated into the skin, they protect against direct DNA damage, because the UV light is absorbed by the sunscreen and not by the DNA. Sunscreen primarily works by absorbing the UV light from the sun through the use of organic compounds, such as oxybenzone or avobenzone. These compounds are able to absorb UV energy from the sun and transition into higher-energy states. Eventually, these molecules return to lower energy states, and in doing so, the initial energy from the UV light can be transformed into heat. This process of absorption works to reduce the risk of DNA damage and the formation of pyrimidine dimers. UVA light makes up 95% of the UV light that reaches earth, whereas UVB light makes up only about 5%. UVB light is the form of UV light that is responsible for tanning and burning. Sunscreens work to protect from both UVA and UVB rays. Overall, sunburns exemplify DNA damage caused by UV rays, and this damage can come in the form of free radical species, as well as dimerization of adjacent nucleotides.
