# Query `40`

*What is the difference between added sugars and natural sugars in processed foods?
While buying juices, I came across two options, one with no added sugars, one with added sugars. The one with no added sugars had 11 grams of sugars, the one with added sugars had also 11 grams of sugar.
Hence my wonder, does it matter what is the source of your sugar intake, whether it is naturally occurring or artificially added?
I generally don't worry about how sweet something is as long as it’s natural, like mangoes are very sweet, but my mind tells me it’s a fruit hence healthy and I am neither diabetic nor fat, so mangoes are ok for me. But still I don't eat candies or other man-made sweet stuff because my mind says it’s artificial. Is my mind right or wrong?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0052
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/sweet-stuff_9_0.txt
> About 15% of the calories in the American adult diet come from added sugars. That’s about 22 teaspoons of added sugar a day. Sugars are usually added to make foods and drinks taste better. But such foods can be high in calories and offer none of the healthful benefits of fruits and other naturally sweet foods.<br><br>Sugar-sweetened beverages like soda, energy drinks, and sports drinks are the leading source of added sugars in the American diet. Juices naturally contain a lot of sugar. But sometimes, even more is added to make them taste sweeter.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/sweet-stuff_5_16.txt
> . Much of the sugar we eat isn’t found naturally in food but is added during processing or preparation. About 15% of the calories in the American adult diet come from added sugars. That’s about 22 teaspoons of added sugar a day. Sugars are usually added to make foods and drinks taste better. But such foods can be high in calories and offer none of the healthful benefits of fruits and other naturally sweet foods. Sugar-sweetened beverages like soda, energy drinks, and sports drinks are the leading source of added sugars in the American diet. Juices naturally contain a

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/the-truth-about-juice_10_2.txt
> that, your body doesn't care where it comes from. Sugar in orange juice vs. cola Yes, fruit juice contains "natural" sugar — but that does not make it healthier than the sugar in cola. In fact, the World Health Organization classifies the sugar in juice with "free sugars," just like the sugar in soda. Heart & Stroke recommends that people reduce intake of free sugars to less than 10% of total calories — and ideally less than 5%. For an adult consuming 2,000 calories daily, that's no more than 50 grams (or 12 teaspoons) of free

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/the-truth-about-juice_9_10.txt
> in orange juice vs. cola Yes, fruit juice contains "natural" sugar — but that does not make it healthier than the sugar in cola. In fact, the World Health Organization classifies the sugar in juice with "free sugars," just like the sugar in soda. Heart & Stroke recommends that people reduce intake of free sugars to less than 10% of total calories — and ideally less than 5%. For an adult consuming 2,000 calories daily, that's no more than 50 grams (or 12 teaspoons) of free sugars per day from all sources — including candy, baked goods,

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/sweet-stuff_4_19.txt
> . About 15% of the calories in the American adult diet come from added sugars. That’s about 22 teaspoons of added sugar a day. Sugars are usually added to make foods and drinks taste better. But such foods can be high in calories and offer none of the healthful benefits of fruits and other naturally sweet foods. Sugar-sweetened beverages like soda, energy drinks, and sports drinks are the leading source of added sugars in the American diet. Juices naturally contain a lot of sugar. But sometimes, even more is added to make them taste sweeter. “Juices


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/Glycemic_index_0.txt
> The glycemic (glycaemic) index (GI; /ɡlaɪˈsiːmɪk/) is a number from 0 to 100 assigned to a food, with pure glucose arbitrarily given the value of 100, which represents the relative rise in the blood glucose level two hours after consuming that food. The GI of a specific food depends primarily on the quantity and type of carbohydrate it contains, but is also affected by the amount of entrapment of the carbohydrate molecules within the food, the fat and protein content of the food, the amount of organic acids (or their salts) in the food, and whether it is cooked and, if so, how it is cooked.  GI tables, which list many types of foods and their GIs, are available. A food is considered to have a  low GI if it is 55 or less; high GI if 70 or more; and mid-range GI if 56 to 69.<br>The term was introduced in 1981 by David J. Jenkins and co-workers.  It is useful for quantifying the relative rapidity with which the body breaks down carbohydrates. It takes into account only the available carbohydrate (total carbohydrate minus fiber) in a food. Glycemic index does not predict an individual's glycemic response to a food, but can be used as a tool to assess the insulin response burden of a food, averaged across a studied population. Individual responses vary greatly.<br>The glycemic index is usually applied in the context of the quantity of the food and the amount of carbohydrate in the food that is actually consumed.  A related measure, the glycemic load (GL), factors this in by multiplying the glycemic index of the food in question by the carbohydrate content of the actual serving.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/Glycemic_index_1.txt
> Measurement[edit]<br>The glycemic index of a food is defined as the incremental area under the two-hour blood glucose response curve (AUC) following a 12-hour fast and ingestion of a food with a certain quantity of available carbohydrate (usually 50 g). The AUC of the test food is divided by the AUC of the standard (either glucose or white bread, giving two different definitions) and multiplied by 100. The average GI value is calculated from data collected in 10 human subjects. Both the standard and test food must contain an equal amount of available carbohydrate. The result gives a relative ranking for each tested food.<br>Foods with carbohydrates that break down quickly during digestion and release glucose rapidly into the bloodstream tend to have a high GI; foods with carbohydrates that break down more slowly, releasing glucose more gradually into the bloodstream, tend to have a low GI.<br>A lower glycemic index suggests slower rates of digestion and absorption of the foods' carbohydrates and can also indicate greater extraction from the liver and periphery of the products of carbohydrate digestion.<br>The current validated methods use glucose as the reference food, giving it a glycemic index value of 100 by definition. This has the advantages of being universal and producing maximum GI values of approximately 100. White bread can also be used as a reference food, giving a different set of GI values (if white bread = 100, then glucose ≈ 140). For people whose staple carbohydrate source is white bread, this has the advantage of conveying directly whether replacement of the dietary staple with a different food would result in faster or slower blood glucose response. A disadvantage with using white bread as a reference food is that it is not a well-defined reference: there is no universal standard for the carbohydrate content of white bread.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, added_sugars_and_natural_sugars/Glycemic_index_3.txt
> Grouping[edit]<br>GI values can be interpreted intuitively as percentages on an absolute scale and are commonly interpreted as follows:<br>Group<br><br>GI range<br><br>Examples<br><br><br>Low<br><br>55 or less<br><br>fructose; pulses (black, pinto, kidney, lentil, peanut, chickpea); small seeds (sunflower, flax, pumpkin, poppy, sesame, hemp); walnuts, cashews, most whole intact grains (durum/spelt/kamut wheat, millet, oat, rye, rice, barley); most vegetables, most sweet fruits (peaches, strawberries, mangos); tagatose; mushrooms; chilis, unpeeled sweet potato<br><br><br>Medium<br><br>56–69<br><br>white sugar or sucrose, not intact whole wheat or enriched wheat, pita bread, basmati rice, unpeeled white/yellow potato, grape juice, raisins, prunes, pumpernickel bread, cranberry juice, regular ice cream, banana, peeled sweet potato<br><br><br>High<br><br>70 and above<br><br>glucose (dextrose, grape sugar), high fructose corn syrup, white bread (only from wheat endosperm), most white rice (only from rice endosperm), corn flakes, extruded breakfast cereals, maltose, maltodextrins, peeled white/yellow potato (83).<br>A low-GI food will cause blood glucose levels to increase more slowly and steadily, which leads to lower postprandial (after meal) blood glucose readings. A high-GI food causes a more rapid rise in blood glucose level and is suitable for energy recovery after exercise or for a person experiencing hypoglycemia.<br>The glycemic effect of foods depends on various factors, such as the type of starch (amylose versus amylopectin), physical entrapment of the starch molecules within the food, fat and protein content of the food and organic acids or their salts in the meal. The presence of fat or soluble dietary fiber can slow the gastric emptying rate, thus lowering the GI. In general, coarse, grainy breads with higher amounts of fiber have a lower GI value than white breads.<br>Many modern diets rely on the glycemic index, including the South Beach Diet, Transitions by Market America and NutriSystem Nourish Diet. However, others have pointed out that foods generally considered to be unhealthy can have a low glycemic index, for instance, chocolate cake (GI 38), ice cream (37), or pure fructose (19), whereas foods like potatoes and rice have GIs around 100 but are commonly eaten in some countries with low rates of diabetes.
