# Query `43`

*Can plants get cancer?
I can't think of any reason why plants wouldn't be able to get cancer, but I've never heard of a plant growing a tumor. I've also never seen a plant with a noticeable abnormal growth. Can plants get cancer?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0435
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1024
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1024
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1756
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0145
map_cut_50: 0.0145
map_cut_100: 0.0224
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) plant_cancer/plants-hold-key-to-developing-future-cancer-treatments_13_0.txt
> This article is more than 2 years old Plants hold key to developing future cancer treatments This article is more than 2 years old<br><br>This article is more than 2 years old Plants hold key to developing future cancer treatments This article is more than 2 years old

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) plant_cancer/plants-hold-key-to-developing-future-cancer-treatments_6_9.txt
> /Getty Images The Observer Cancer This article is more than 2 years old Plants hold key to developing future cancer treatments This article is more than 2 years old Scientists say the natural world has an important role to play in creating new drugs to fight the disease Robin McKie Sun 17 Apr 2022 08.30 BST Last modified on Fri 22 Apr 2022 12.55 BST Share Cancer care relies on complex therapies involving radioactive materials and sophisticated drugs and has come far from past remedies based on plants and herbs. However, scientists warn there is still a need to understand the botanical roots of tumour treatments – to maintain new

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_4_276.txt
> . Plant Cell. 1 (1): 38–55. doi : 10.1105/tpc.113.119727. PMC 3963583. PMID 24481074. ^ Telewski, FW (October 2006). "A unified hypothesis of mechanoreception in plants". American Journal of Botany. 93 (10): 1466–76. doi : 10.3732/ajb.93.10.1466. PMID 21642094. ^ Abramson, Charles I.; Chicas-Mosier, Ana M. (2016-

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) organism_learn/Learning_50_98.txt
> . Plant Cell. 1 (1): 38–55. doi : 10.1105/tpc.113.119727. PMC 3963583. PMID 24481074. ^ Telewski, FW (October 2006). "A unified hypothesis of mechanoreception in plants". American Journal of Botany. 93 (10): 1466–76. doi : 10.3732/ajb.93.10.1466. PMID 21642094. ^ Abramson, Charles I.; Chicas-Mosier, Ana M. (2016-

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) cancer_not_communicable/viruseshtml_411_1.txt
> turn them<br>into cancer cells.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, plant_cancer/Agrobacterium_tumefaciens_2.txt
> Infection methods[edit]<br>Agrobacterium tumefaciens infects the plant through its Ti plasmid. The Ti plasmid integrates a segment of its DNA, known as T-DNA, into the chromosomal DNA of its host plant cells. A. tumefaciens has flagella that allow it to swim through the soil towards photoassimilates that accumulate in the rhizosphere around roots. Some strains may chemotactically move towards chemical exudates from plants, such as acetosyringone and sugars, which indicate the presence of a wound in the plant through which the bacteria may enter. Phenolic compounds are recognised by the VirA protein, a transmembrane protein encoded in the virA gene on the Ti plasmid. Sugars are recognised by the chvE protein, a chromosomal gene-encoded protein located in the periplasmic space.<br>At least 25 vir genes on the Ti plasmid are necessary for tumor induction. In addition to their perception role, virA and chvE induce other vir genes. The VirA protein has autokinase activity: it phosphorylates itself on a histidine residue. Then the VirA protein phosphorylates the VirG protein on its aspartate residue. The virG protein is a cytoplasmic protein produced from the virG Ti plasmid gene. It is a transcription factor, inducing the transcription of the vir operons. The ChvE protein regulates the second mechanism of the vir genes' activation. It increases VirA protein sensitivity to phenolic compounds.<br>Attachment is a two-step process. Following an initial weak and reversible attachment, the bacteria synthesize cellulose fibrils that anchor them to the wounded plant cell to which they were attracted. Four main genes are involved in this process: chvA, chvB, pscA, and att. The products of the first three genes apparently are involved in the actual synthesis of the cellulose fibrils. These fibrils also anchor the bacteria to each other, helping to form a microcolony.<br>VirC, the most important virulent protein, is a necessary step in the recombination of illegitimate recolonization. It selects the section of the DNA in the host plant that will be replaced and it cuts into this strand of DNA.<br>After production of cellulose fibrils, a calcium-dependent outer membrane protein called rhicadhesin is produced, which also aids in sticking the bacteria to the cell wall. Homologues of this protein can be found in other rhizobia. Currently, there are several reports on standardisation of protocol for the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The effect of different parameters such as infection time, acetosyringone, DTT, and cysteine have been studied in soybean (Glycine max).<br>Possible plant compounds that initiate Agrobacterium to infect plant cells:<br>Acetosyringone and other phenolic compounds<br>alpha-Hydroxyacetosyringone<br>Catechol<br>Ferulic acid<br>Gallic acid<br>p-Hydroxybenzoic acid<br>Protocatechuic acid<br>Pyrogallic acid<br>Resorcylic acid<br>Sinapinic acid<br>Syringic acid<br>Vanillin<br>Formation of the T-pilus[edit]<br>To transfer T-DNA into a plant cell, A. tumefaciens uses a type IV secretion mechanism, involving the production of a T-pilus. When acetosyringone and other substances are detected, a signal transduction event activates the expression of 11 genes within the VirB operon which are responsible for the formation of the T-pilus.<br>The pro-pilin is formed first. This is a polypeptide of 121 amino acids which requires processing by the removal of 47 residues to form a T-pilus subunit. The subunit was thought to be circularized by the formation of a peptide bond between the two ends of the polypeptide. However, high-resolution structure of the T-pilus revealed no cyclization of the pilin, with the overall organization of the pilin subunits being highly similar to those of other conjugative pili, such as F-pilus.<br>Products of the other VirB genes are used to transfer the subunits across the plasma membrane. Yeast two-hybrid studies provide evidence that VirB6, VirB7, VirB8, VirB9 and VirB10 may all encode components of the transporter. An ATPase for the active transport of the subunits would also be required.<br>Transfer of T-DNA into the plant cell[edit]<br>Agrobacterium cellAgrobacterium chromosomeTi Plasmid (a. T-DNA, b. vir genes, c. replication origin, d. opines catabolism)Plant cellPlant mitochondriaPlant chloroplastPlant nucleus VirA recognitionVirA phosphorylates VirGVirG causes transcription of Vir genesVir genes cut out T-DNA and form nucleoprotein complex ("T-complex")T-complex enters plant cytoplasm through T-pilusT-DNA enters into plant nucleus through nuclear poreT-DNA achieves integration<br>The T-DNA must be cut out of the circular plasmid. This is typically done by the Vir genes within the helper plasmid. A VirD1/D2 complex nicks the DNA at the left and right border sequences. The VirD2 protein is covalently attached to the 5' end. VirD2 contains a motif that leads to the nucleoprotein complex being targeted to the type IV secretion system (T4SS). The structure of the T-pilus showed that the central channel of the pilus is too narrow to allow the transfer of the folded VirD2, suggesting that VirD2 must be partially unfolded during the conjugation process.<br>In the cytoplasm of the recipient cell, the T-DNA complex becomes coated with VirE2 proteins, which are exported through the T4SS independently from the T-DNA complex.<br>Nuclear localization signals, or NLSs, located on the VirE2 and VirD2, are recognised by the importin alpha protein, which then associates with importin beta and the nuclear pore complex to transfer the T-DNA into the nucleus. VIP1 also appears to be an important protein in the process, possibly acting as an adapter to bring the VirE2 to the importin. Once inside the nucleus, VIP2 may target the T-DNA to areas of chromatin that are being actively transcribed, so that the T-DNA can integrate into the host genome.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 83, plant_cancer/Agrobacterium_tumefaciens_6.txt
> Disease cycle[edit]<br>Disease cycle<br>Agrobacterium tumefaciens overwinters in infested soils. Agrobacterium species live predominantly saprophytic lifestyles, so its common even for plant-parasitic species of this genus to survive in the soil for lengthy periods of time, even without host plant presence. When there is a host plant present, however, the bacteria enter the plant tissue via recent wounds or natural openings of roots or stems near the ground. These wounds may be caused by cultural practices, grafting, insects, etc. Once the bacteria have entered the plant, they occur intercellularly and stimulate surrounding tissue to proliferate due to cell transformation. Agrobacterium performs this control by inserting the plasmid T-DNA into the plant's genome. See above for more details about the process of plasmid DNA insertion into the host genome. Excess growth of the plant tissue leads to gall formation on the stem and roots. These tumors exert significant pressure on the surrounding plant tissue, which causes this tissue to become crushed and/or distorted. The crushed vessels lead to reduced water flow in the xylem. Young tumors are soft and therefore vulnerable to secondary invasion by insects and saprophytic microorganisms. This secondary invasion causes the breakdown of the peripheral cell layers as well as tumor discoloration due to decay. Breakdown of the soft tissue leads to release of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens into the soil allowing it to restart the disease process with a new host plant.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 22, plant_cancer/Agrobacterium_tumefaciens_0.txt
> Agrobacterium tumefaciens is the causal agent of crown gall disease (the formation of tumours) in over 140 species of eudicots. It is a rod-shaped, Gram-negative soil bacterium. Symptoms are caused by the insertion of a small segment of DNA (known as T-DNA, for 'transfer DNA', not to be confused with tRNA that transfers amino acids during protein synthesis), from a plasmid into the plant cell, which is incorporated at a semi-random location into the plant genome. Plant genomes can be engineered by use of Agrobacterium for the delivery of sequences hosted in T-DNA binary vectors.<br>Agrobacterium tumefaciens is an Alphaproteobacterium of the family Rhizobiaceae, which includes the nitrogen-fixing legume symbionts. Unlike the nitrogen-fixing symbionts, tumor-producing Agrobacterium species are pathogenic and do not benefit the plant. The wide variety of plants affected by Agrobacterium makes it of great concern to the agriculture industry.<br>Economically, A. tumefaciens is a serious pathogen of walnuts, grape vines, stone fruits, nut trees, sugar beets, horse radish, and rhubarb, and the persistent nature of the tumors or galls caused by the disease make it particularly harmful for perennial crops.<br>Agrobacterium tumefaciens grows optimally at 28 °C (82 °F). The doubling time can range from 2.5–4h depending on the media, culture format, and level of aeration. At temperatures above 30 °C (86 °F), A. tumefaciens begins to experience heat shock which is likely to result in errors in cell division.
