# Query `44`

*Why are fearful stimuli more powerful at night?
For example, horror movies appear to be scarier when viewed at night than during broad day light.
Does light have any role in this phenomenon?
Are there changes in hormones at night versus during the day that makes fear stronger?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) human_fear_dark/fear_response_dark_2.txt
> Results<br>Startle was significantly facilitated in the dark. This effect was potentiated by prior exposure to the social stressor. The social stressor induced increases in salivary cortisol and α amylase as well as increases in blood pressure, heart rate, and subjective distress.<br><br>Conclusion<br>The findings indicate that stress potentiates anxiety. Animal studies suggest that such an effect might be mediated by glucocorticoid effects on corticotropin-releasing hormone in limbic structures.

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) human_fear_dark/fear_response_dark_4.txt
> Results<br>Startle was facilitated by darkness, and this facilitation increased after stress (Figure 2). A Stress Condition (2) × Illumination (2) × Gender (2) ANOVA revealed an Illumination main effect [F(1,18) = 15.9, p < .0009] and a Stress Condition × Illumination interaction [F(1,18) = 6.4, p < .02]. Follow-up tests showed significant FSD in the control [F(1,19) = 6.8, p < .02] and stress condition [F(1,19) = 18.5, p < .0009].<br><br>The autonomic, endocrine, cardiovascular, and subjective responses<br><br>Discussion<br>To our knowledge this is the first report showing that unconditioned anxiety is enhanced by prior stress. Anxiety as measured with FSD was sensitized in humans exposed to a social stressor, consistent with animal data (7, 8).<br><br>The light-enhanced startle effect in the rat is mediated by CRH in the BNST (18), suggesting that the effect of changes in background illumination on startle (i.e., FSD) is also mediated by CRH acting on receptors in the BNST. Sensitized FSD by stress in humans might

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) fast_asleep/full_24_1.txt
> experimental night (p < 0.01).

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/PMC5136610_21_0.txt
> Light may have an additional action pathway during the sleep inertia period via the cortisol awakening response (CAR). Cortisol is a hormone typically associated with stress response and follows a diurnal pattern with higher levels during the day and lower levels at night69). The CAR refers to the sharp increase in cortisol upon waking in the morning70). This response is greater in the presence of light presented immediately after waking (800 lux for 1 h)71). Less intense light presented before waking (dawn simulation: light gradually increased to 250–300 lux over 30 min before waking) has had mixed effect35, 72).

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) human_fear_dark/fear-of-the-dark-in-children_15_1.txt
> off at night that can make them anxious:


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, human_fear_dark/fear_response_dark_4.txt
> Results<br>Startle was facilitated by darkness, and this facilitation increased after stress (Figure 2). A Stress Condition (2) × Illumination (2) × Gender (2) ANOVA revealed an Illumination main effect [F(1,18) = 15.9, p < .0009] and a Stress Condition × Illumination interaction [F(1,18) = 6.4, p < .02]. Follow-up tests showed significant FSD in the control [F(1,19) = 6.8, p < .02] and stress condition [F(1,19) = 18.5, p < .0009].<br><br>The autonomic, endocrine, cardiovascular, and subjective responses<br><br>Discussion<br>To our knowledge this is the first report showing that unconditioned anxiety is enhanced by prior stress. Anxiety as measured with FSD was sensitized in humans exposed to a social stressor, consistent with animal data (7, 8).<br><br>The light-enhanced startle effect in the rat is mediated by CRH in the BNST (18), suggesting that the effect of changes in background illumination on startle (i.e., FSD) is also mediated by CRH acting on receptors in the BNST. Sensitized FSD by stress in humans might

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, human_fear_dark/fear_response_dark_2.txt
> Results<br>Startle was significantly facilitated in the dark. This effect was potentiated by prior exposure to the social stressor. The social stressor induced increases in salivary cortisol and α amylase as well as increases in blood pressure, heart rate, and subjective distress.<br><br>Conclusion<br>The findings indicate that stress potentiates anxiety. Animal studies suggest that such an effect might be mediated by glucocorticoid effects on corticotropin-releasing hormone in limbic structures.
