# Query `45`

*Why is loud music much louder after pausing and resuming it?
If I pause a sufficiently loud song (in headphones) for several seconds, then resume it, I perceive it as deafeningly loud, even painfully. Yet, if I first lower the volume, resume, and then gradually increase it over a span of as little as two seconds, there's no problem.
Like turning on lights when someone's sleeping, but for ears that were awake six second ago.
Why does this happen?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0238
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1130
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1130
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0119
map_cut_100: 0.0119
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) fake_auditory_signal/auditory-signal-processing_4_0.txt
> It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabled. Please turn on<br>JavaScript and try again.<br><br>Research  Research  Hearing and Speech Perception Research  Auditory Signal<br>Processing

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) adults_lose_hearing/Hearing_7_0.txt
> See also[edit]<br>Basics<br>Ear<br>Hearing loss<br>Hearing test<br>General<br><br>Auditory scene analysis<br>Auditory science<br>Auditory system<br>Bone conduction<br>Hearing range<br>Human echolocation<br>Listening<br>Neuronal encoding of sound<br>Psychoacoustics<br>Safe listening<br>Temporal envelope and fine structure<br>World Hearing Day<br>Disorders<br><br>Auditory processing disorder<br>Endaural phenomena<br>Hearing loss<br>Hyperacusis<br>Presbycusis<br>Tinnitus<br>Test and measurement<br><br>Audiogram<br>Aud

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) music_loud/minimum-volume-is-too-loud-to-enjoy-background-music-6764717_70_0.txt
> 23 February 2017<br><br>That's a good way to do it, but when I just did it on my Mac controller at my<br>desk in a quiet room, with speakers flanking the computer and close to my<br>ears, it took me a couple of taps - more like 4 - before I could hear music<br>with some clarity. Hence I remain puzzled as to why this too loud complaint is<br>made.  <br>  <br>And the same results from my handheld.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) fake_auditory_signal/auditory-pathway_44_0.txt
> Organ of Corti (histological slide)<br><br>The influx of potassium causes the generation of a local current and then an<br>action potential  that is sent up the cochlear division of the<br>vestibulocochlear nerve  (cranial nerve 8). This nerve then sends the signal<br>to nuclei in the  brainstem .

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) fake_auditory_signal/Auditory_Signal_Processing_5_0.txt
> Difference in loudness and timing help us to localize the source of a sound<br>signal.<br><br>###  Sound reception at the pinna  [  edit  |  edit source  ]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, music_loud/Neural_adaptation_0.txt
> Neural adaptation or sensory adaptation is a gradual decrease over time in the responsiveness of the sensory system to a constant stimulus. It is usually experienced as a change in the stimulus. For example, if a hand is rested on a table, the table's surface is immediately felt against the skin. Subsequently, however, the sensation of the table surface against the skin gradually diminishes until it is virtually unnoticeable. The sensory neurons that initially respond are no longer stimulated to respond; this is an example of neural adaptation.<br>All sensory and neural systems have a form of adaptation to constantly detect changes in the environment. Neural receptor cells that process and receive stimulation go through constant changes for mammals and other living organisms to sense vital changes in their environment. Some key players in several neural systems include Caions (see Calcium in biology) that send negative feedback in second messenger pathways that allow the neural receptor cells to close or open channels in response to the changes of ion flow. There are also mechanoreception systems that use calcium inflow to physically affect certain proteins and move them to close or open channels.<br>Functionally, it is highly possible that adaptation may enhance the limited response range of neurons to encode sensory signals with much larger dynamic ranges by shifting the range of stimulus amplitudes. Also, in neural adaptation there is a sense of returning to baseline from a stimulated response. Recent work suggests that these baseline states are actually determined by long-term adaptation to the environment. Varying rates or speed of adaptation is an important indicator for tracking different rates of change in the environment or the organism itself.<br>Current research shows that although adaptation occurs at multiple stages of each sensory pathway, it is often stronger and more stimulus specific at "cortical" level rather than "subcortical stages". In short, neural adaptation is thought to happen at a more central level at the cortex.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 41, music_loud/Neural_adaptation_4.txt
> Auditory[edit]<br>Auditory adaptation, as perceptual adaptation with other senses, is the process by which individuals adapt to sounds and noises. As research has shown, as time progresses, individuals tend to adapt to sounds and tend to distinguish them less frequently after a while. Sensory adaptation tends to blend sounds into one, variable sound, rather than having several separate sounds as a series. Moreover, after repeated perception, individuals tend to adapt to sounds to the point where they no longer consciously perceive it, or rather, "block it out". An individual that lives close to the train tracks, will eventually stop noticing the sounds of passing trains. Similarly, individuals living in larger cities no longer notice traffic sounds after a while. Moving to a completely different area, such as a quiet countryside, that individual would then be aware of the silence, crickets, etc.<br>The mechanoreception of sound requires a specific set of receptor cells called hair cells that allow for gradient signals to pass onto spatial ganglia where the signal will be sent to the brain to be processed. Since this is mechanoreception, different from chemoreception, adaptation of sound from surroundings highly depends on the physical movement of opening and closing of cation channels on the hair cell stereocilia. Mechanoelectric transduction (MET) channels, located at the tops of stereocilia, are poised to detect tension induced by hair bundle deflection. Hair bundle deflection generates a force by pulling on tip link proteins connecting adjacent stereocilia.
