# Query `46`

*Why does sex last so long?
I wonder why (especially human) sex lasts longer than just a few seconds?
My thought is that the shorter it takes a man to ejaculate, the lesser is the risk that he gets interrupted by a rival or a predator. Therefore, men who ejaculate quickly get an evolutionary advantage in the long-term.
But, as human sex lasts several minutes, I'm obvioulsy wrong with my argument. Anybody knows why?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) sex_duration/how-long-does-sex-last_26_0.txt
> Corty, E. W.,  et al . (2008). Canadian and American sex therapists' perceptions of normal and abnormal ejaculatory latencies: How long should intercourse last?    <br>https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18331255<br><br>   Waldinger, M. D.,  et al . (2005). A multinational population survey of intravaginal ejaculation latency time.    <br>https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16422843

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) sex_duration/how-long-does-sex-last_5_0.txt
> There is also a distinction between how long sex actually lasts and how long<br>some people feel it should. Some  studies  show that penile-vaginal<br>intercourse lasts, on average, less time than women in monogamous, “stable”<br>heterosexual relationships need to have an orgasm, for example.<br><br>###  How long does sex last? Here is what we know so far

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) sex_duration/how-long-does-sex-last_11_0.txt
> The therapists responded that sex:<br><br>   lasting under 3 minutes warrants clinical concern <br>   lasting 3–7 minutes is “adequate” <br>   lasting 7–13 minutes is “desirable” <br>   lasting 10–30 minutes is “too long”

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) sex_duration/how-long-does-sex-last_9_0.txt
> A  2005 multinational study  of heterosexual couples that defined sex as<br>penile-vaginal intercourse asked participants to time sex from penetration<br>through to male ejaculation.<br><br>Within their very limited parameters, the team found that reports ranged from<br>33 seconds to 44 minutes, with the average session lasting 5.4 minutes.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) sex_duration/how-long-does-sex-last_4_0.txt
> People define sex differently. One person might only consider it to entail<br>penetrative intercourse, while another might consider sex to start with the<br>beginning of foreplay and last beyond each partner’s orgasm.<br><br>Evidence of how long sex tends to last is difficult to obtain, even<br>anecdotally. A person might feel pressure to be untruthful if the duration of<br>sex for them differs from perceived cultural norms.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, sex_duration/Handicap_principle_0.txt
> The handicap principle is a disputed hypothesis proposed by the Israeli biologist Amotz Zahavi in 1975. It is meant to explain how sexual selection may lead to "honest" or reliable signalling between male and female animals which have an obvious motivation to bluff or deceive each other. The handicap principle suggests that secondary sexual characteristics are costly signals which must be reliable, as they cost the signaller resources that individuals with less of a particular trait could not afford. The handicap principle further proposes that animals of greater biological fitness signal this through handicapping behaviour, or morphology that effectively lowers overall fitness. The central idea is that sexually selected traits function like conspicuous consumption, signalling the ability to afford to squander a resource. Receivers then know that the signal indicates quality, because inferior-quality signallers are unable to produce such wastefully extravagant signals.<br>The handicap principle is supported by game theory modelling representing situations such as nestlings begging for food, predator-deterrent signalling, and threat displays. However, honest signals are not necessarily costly, undermining the theoretical basis for the handicap principle, which remains unconfirmed by empirical evidence.
