# Query `54`

*Is blood regarded as an organ?
It consist approximately 7 percent of body weight.
By definition organ is composed of multiple tissues. Blood is a fluid, a circulating tissue.
Therefore can we call this fluid system a liquid organ?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0172
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1514
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0129
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) blood_organ/blood-tissues-organs_4_0.txt
> #  Blood, Tissues and Organs<br><br>##

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) blood_organ/blood-tissues-cells-and-organs_en_5_0.txt
> #  Blood, tissues, cells and organs<br><br>Overview

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) blood_organ/blood+organ+and+tissue_15_0.txt
> #  Blood, organ and tissue<br><br>On this page

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) blood_organ/blood+organ+and+tissue_16_0.txt
> ##  Blood<br><br>Blood is the fluid that transports oxygen and nutrients around the body. An<br>average adult has just under 5 litres of blood circulating around their body.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/21704heart_21_0.txt
> The heart is a fist-sized organ that pumps [ blood<br>](https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/body/24836-blood) throughout your<br>body. It’s your [ circulatory system<br>](https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/body/21775-circulatory-system) ’s main<br>organ. Muscle and tissue make up this powerhouse organ.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 92, blood_organ/Connective_tissue_0.txt
> Connective tissue is one of the four primary types of animal tissue, along with epithelial tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. It develops mostly from the mesenchyme, derived from the mesoderm, the middle embryonic germ layer. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. The three meninges, membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord, are composed of connective tissue. Most types of connective tissue consists of three main components: elastic and collagen fibers, ground substance, and cells. Blood, and lymph are classed as specialized fluid connective tissues that do not contain fiber. All are immersed in the body water. The cells of connective tissue include fibroblasts, adipocytes, macrophages, mast cells and leukocytes.<br>The term "connective tissue" (in German, Bindegewebe) was introduced in 1830 by Johannes Peter Müller. The tissue was already recognized as a distinct class in the 18th century.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 57, blood_organ/Connective_tissue_2.txt
> Fibrous types[edit]<br>Fiber types found in the extracellular matrix are collagen fibers, elastic fibers, and reticular fibers.<br>Ground substance is a clear, colorless, and viscous fluid containing glycosaminoglycans and proteoglycans allowing fixation of Collagen fibers in intercellular spaces. Examples of non-fibrous connective tissue include adipose tissue (fat) and blood. Adipose tissue gives "mechanical cushioning" to the body, among other functions. Although there is no dense collagen network in adipose tissue, groups of adipose cells are kept together by collagen fibers and collagen sheets in order to keep fat tissue under compression in place (for example, the sole of the foot). Both the ground substance and proteins (fibers) create the matrix for connective tissue.<br>Type I collagen is present in many forms of connective tissue, and makes up about 25% of the total protein content of the mammalian body.<br>Types of fibers<br><br><br>Tissue<br>Purpose<br>Components<br>Location<br><br><br>Collagen fibers<br>Bind bones and other tissues to each other<br>Alpha polypeptide chains<br>tendon, ligament, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, blood vessels, gut, and intervertebral disc.<br><br><br>Elastic fibers<br>Allow organs like arteries and lungs to recoil<br>Elastic microfibril and elastin<br>extracellular matrix<br><br><br>Reticular fibers<br>Form a scaffolding for other cells<br>Type III collagen<br>liver, bone marrow, and lymphatic organs

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, blood_organ/Connective_tissue_1.txt
> Types[edit]<br><br>Connective tissue can be broadly classified into connective tissue proper, and special connective tissue.<br>Connective tissue proper[edit]<br>Connective tissue proper consists of loose connective tissue (including reticular connective tissue and adipose tissue) and dense connective tissue (subdivided into dense regular and dense irregular connective tissues.) Loose and dense connective tissue are distinguished by the ratio of ground substance to fibrous tissue. Loose connective tissue has much more ground substance and a relative lack of fibrous tissue, while the reverse is true of dense connective tissue. Dense regular connective tissue, found in structures such as tendons and ligaments, is characterized by collagen fibers arranged in an orderly parallel fashion, giving it tensile strength in one direction. Dense irregular connective tissue provides strength in multiple directions by its dense bundles of fibers arranged in all directions.<br>Special connective tissue[edit]<br>Special connective tissue consists of cartilage, bone, blood and lymph. Other kinds of connective tissues include fibrous, elastic, and lymphoid connective tissues. Fibroareolar tissue is a mix of fibrous and areolar tissue. Fibromuscular tissue is made up of fibrous tissue and muscular tissue. New vascularised connective tissue that forms in the process of wound healing is termed granulation tissue. All of the special connective tissue types have been included as a subset of fascia in the fascial system, with blood and lymph classed as liquid fascia.<br>Bone and cartilage can be further classified as supportive connective tissue. Blood and lymph can also be categorized as fluid connective tissue, and liquid fascia.<br>Membranes[edit]<br>Membranes can be either of connective tissue or epithelial tissue. Connective tissue membranes include the meninges (the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord) and synovial membranes that line joint cavities. Mucous membranes and serous membranes are epithelial with an underlying layer of loose connective tissue.
