# Query `55`

*Seeing strange things in light
I have noticed that if you look directly at tubelight (I have only white ones in my home) and close your eyes little, you see little random shaped colourless things sometimes with slow speed and sometimes with falling down.
They are shaped like circles with something in between and in chains of random length.
My father has also seen them. So, I am sure I am not imagining things. What the hell are they?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1250
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1480
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3874
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3874
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3874
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0417
map_cut_25: 0.1560
map_cut_50: 0.1560
map_cut_100: 0.1560
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) strange_things_in_light/Floater_8_0.txt
> See also[edit]<br>Blue field entoptic phenomenon, alias Scheerer's phenomenon – tiny bright dots moving quickly in the visual field.<br>Ocular straylight<br>Phosphene<br>Scotoma<br>Synchysis scintillans

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_smooth_transition/Opticalillusion_87_1.txt
> , [ light<br>streaking ](/wiki/Illusory_palinopsia#Light_streaking "Illusory palinopsia"),<br>[ prolonged indistinct afterimages<br>](/wiki/Illusory_palinopsia#Prolonged_indistinct_afterimage "Illusory<br>palinopsia") ), [ akinetopsia ](/wiki/Akinetopsia "Akinetopsia"), [ visual<br>snow ](/wiki/Visual_snow "Visual snow"), [ micro

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_smooth_transition/Opticalillusion_88_0.txt
> These symptoms may indicate an underlying disease state and necessitate seeing<br>a medical practitioner. Etiologies associated with pathological visual<br>illusions include multiple types of [ ocular disease ](/wiki/Eye_disease "Eye<br>disease"), [ migraines ](/wiki/Migraine "Migraine"), [ hallucinogen<br>persisting perception disorder<br>](/wiki/Hallucinogen_persisting_perception_disorder "Hallucinogen persisting<br>perception disorder"), [ head trauma ](/wiki/Cl

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_smooth_transition/Opticalillusion_87_3.txt
> ia"), intense [ glare<br>](/wiki/Glare_\(vision\) "Glare \(vision\)"), [ blue field entoptic<br>phenomenon ](/wiki/Blue_field_entoptic_phenomenon "Blue field entoptic<br>phenomenon"), and [ purkinje trees ](/wiki/Entoptic_phenomena "Entoptic<br>phenomena").

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_smooth_transition/Opticalillusion_88_2.txt
> etiologies, but are often<br>idiopathic. There is no standard treatment for these visual disturbances.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 7, strange_things_in_light/Floater_0.txt
> Floaters or eye floaters are sometimes visible deposits (e.g., the shadows of tiny structures of protein or other cell debris projected onto the retina) within the eye's vitreous humour ("the vitreous"), which is normally transparent, or between the vitreous and retina. <br>They can become particularly noticeable when looking at a blank surface or an open monochromatic space, such as blue sky.<br>Each floater can be measured by its size, shape, consistency, refractive index, and motility. They are also called muscae volitantes (Latin for 'flying flies'), or mouches volantes (from the same phrase in French). The vitreous usually starts out transparent, but imperfections may gradually develop as one ages. The common type of floater, present in most people's eyes, is due to these degenerative changes of the vitreous. The perception of floaters, which may be annoying or problematic to some people, is known as myodesopsia, or, less commonly, as myodaeopsia, myiodeopsia, or myiodesopsia. It is not often treated, except in severe cases, where vitrectomy (surgery), laser vitreolysis, and medication may be effective.<br>Floaters are visible either because of the shadows imperfections cast on the retina, or because of the refraction of light that passes through them, and can appear alone or together with several others as a clump in one's visual field. They may appear as spots, threads, or fragments of "cobwebs", which float slowly before the observer's eyes, and move especially in the direction the eyes move. As these objects exist within the eye itself, they are not optical illusions but are entoptic phenomena (caused by the eye itself). They are not to be confused with visual snow, which is similar to the static on a television screen, although these two conditions may co-exist as part of a number of visual disturbances which include starbursts, trails, and afterimages.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 11, strange_things_in_light/Floater_1.txt
> Signs and symptoms[edit]<br><br>External videos What are those floaty things in your eye? - Michael Mauser, 4:04, TED-Ed<br>Floaters are from objects in pockets of liquid within the vitreous humour, the thick fluid or gel that fills the eye, or between the vitreous and the retina. The vitreous humour, or vitreous body, is a jelly-like, transparent substance that fills the majority of the eye. It lies within the vitreous chamber behind the lens, and is one of the four optical components of the eye. Thus, floaters follow the rapid motions of the eye, while drifting slowly within the pocket of liquid. When they are first noticed, the natural reaction is to attempt to look directly at them. However, attempting to shift one's gaze toward them can be difficult because floaters follow the motion of the eye, remaining to the side of the direction of gaze. Floaters are, in fact, visible only because they do not remain perfectly fixed within the eye. Although the blood vessels of the eye also obstruct light, they are invisible under normal circumstances because they are fixed in location relative to the retina, and the brain "tunes out" stabilized images through neural adaptation.<br>Floaters are particularly noticeable when looking at a blank surface or an open monochromatic space, such as blue sky. Despite the name "floaters", many of these specks have a tendency to sink toward the bottom of the eyeball, in whichever way the eyeball is oriented; the supine position (looking up or lying back) tends to concentrate them near the fovea, which is the center of gaze, while the textureless and evenly lit sky forms an ideal background against which to view them. The brightness of the daytime sky also causes the eyes' pupils to contract, reducing the aperture, which makes floaters less blurry and easier to see.<br>Floaters present at birth usually remain lifelong, while those that appear later may disappear within weeks or months. They are not uncommon, and do not cause serious problems for most people.  A survey of optometrists in 2002 suggested that an average of 14 patients per month per optometrist presented with symptoms of floaters in the UK. However, floaters are more than a nuisance and a distraction to those with severe cases, especially if the spots seem constantly to drift through the field of vision. The shapes are shadows projected onto the retina by tiny structures of protein or other cell debris discarded over the years and trapped in the vitreous humour or between the vitreous and retina. Floaters can even be seen when the eyes are closed on especially bright days, when sufficient light penetrates the eyelids to cast the shadows. It is not, however, only elderly persons who are troubled by floaters; they can also become a problem to younger people, especially if they are myopic. They are also common after cataract or clear lens extraction operations or after trauma.<br>Floaters are able to catch and refract light in ways that somewhat blur vision temporarily until the floater moves to a different area. Often they trick persons who are troubled by floaters into thinking they see something out of the corner of their eye that really is not there. Most persons come to terms with the problem, after a time, and learn to ignore their floaters. For persons with severe floaters it is nearly impossible to ignore completely the large masses that constantly stay within almost direct view.<br>In the case of young people, particularly those under 35, symptomatic floaters are likely suspended within a posterior region of the eye known as the pre-macular bursa. Such floaters appear well-defined and usually bear the appearance of a 'crystal worm' or cobweb. Due to their proximity to the retina, the floaters have a significant effect on the visual field for patients. In addition, such floaters are often in the central visual axis as it moves with the intravitreal currents of the eye. Research on floaters of the pre-macular bursa are very minimal and safe treatment for patients with this disturbance that does not warrant major vitrectomy has yet to be discovered. Moreover, the cause and prognosis for such floaters also remains to be found. Some doctors suggest such floaters may resolve over time, should the floaters move away from the retina.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 16, strange_things_in_light/Floater_2.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>There are various causes for the appearance of floaters, of which the most common are described here.<br>Floaters can occur when eyes age; in rare cases, floaters may be a sign of retinal detachment or a retinal tear.<br>Vitreous syneresis[edit]<br>Vitreous syneresis (liquefaction) and contraction with age can cause vitreous floaters. Additionally, trauma or injury to the globe can cause them.<br>Vitreous detachments and retinal detachments[edit]<br>Weiss ring: a large, ring shaped floater that is sometimes seen if the vitreous body releases from the back of the eye<br>In time, the liquefied vitreous body loses support and its framework contracts. This leads to posterior vitreous detachment, in which the vitreous membrane is released from the sensory retina. During this detachment, the shrinking vitreous can stimulate the retina mechanically, causing the patient to see random flashes across the visual field, sometimes referred to as "flashers", a symptom more formally referred to as photopsia. The ultimate release of the vitreous around the optic nerve head sometimes makes a large floater appear, usually in the shape of a ring ("Weiss ring"). As a complication, part of the retina might be torn off by the departing vitreous membrane, in a process known as retinal detachment. This will often leak blood into the vitreous, which is seen by the patient as a sudden appearance of numerous small dots, moving across the whole field of vision. Retinal detachment requires immediate medical attention, as it can easily cause blindness. Consequently, both the appearance of flashes and the sudden onset of numerous small floaters should be rapidly investigated by an eye care provider.<br>Posterior vitreous detachment is more common in people who:<br>are nearsighted;<br>have undergone cataract surgery or clear lens extraction;<br>have had Nd:YAG laser surgery of the eye;<br>have had inflammation inside the eye.<br>Regression of the hyaloid artery[edit]<br>The hyaloid artery, an artery running through the vitreous humour during the fetal stage of development, regresses in the third trimester of pregnancy. Its disintegration can sometimes leave cell matter.<br>Other common causes[edit]<br>Patients with retinal tears may experience floaters if red blood cells are released from leaky blood vessels, and those with uveitis or vitritis, as in toxoplasmosis, may experience multiple floaters and decreased vision due to the accumulation of white blood cells in the vitreous humour.<br>Other causes for floaters include cystoid macular edema and asteroid hyalosis. The latter is an anomaly of the vitreous humour, whereby calcium clumps attach themselves to the collagen network. The bodies that are formed in this way move slightly with eye movement, but then return to their fixed position.
