# Query `70`

*Are there lifeforms that have more than 2 sexes?
Are there any lifeforms on earth that have more than male and female biological sexes?
If so, are all three mates required for reproduction or is there something else going on?
If not, why not? There are species that have one sex and there are species with 2 sexes. I get some of the basics of why there are two instead of one, but would those benefits not be even greater if there were three sexes?
NOTE: I am of course only talking about sexual reproduction. I have no intention or desire to talk about transgender or LGBT issues nor am I wanting to make any points on the issue. This is solely a question about sexes in biology and not human social constructs.
Also, I am a computer programmer, not a biologist. Please forgive me for not knowing any of the terminology.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0189
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0678
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0047
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) more_than_two_sexes/Sexualreproduction_105_18.txt
> http://www.nature.com/scitable/topicpage/sexual-reproduction-and-the-evolution-of-sex-824) from the original on 28 January 2019 . Retrieved  28 Feb  2019 .<br>11.  ^   [ John Maynard Smith ](/wiki/John_Maynard_Smith "John Maynard Smith") _The Evolution of Sex_ 1978\.<br>12.  ^   Ridley, M. (2004) Evolution, 3rd edition. Blackwell Publishing, p. 314.<br>13.  ^

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) more_than_two_sexes/Sexualreproduction_114_4.txt
> roditism ](/wiki/Simultaneous_hermaphroditism "Simultaneous hermaphroditism")<br> [ Intersex ](/wiki/Intersex "Intersex")<br> [ parasexuality ](/wiki/Parasexual_cycle "Parasexual cycle")<br> [ Sex as a biological variable ](/wiki/Sex_as_a_biological_variable "Sex as a biological variable")

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) more_than_two_sexes/Sexualreproduction_105_47.txt
> ifier\) "S2CID \(identifier\)") [ 1179013 ](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:1179013).<br>26.  ^   Dimijian, G. G. (2005). Evolution of sexuality: biology and behavior. Proceedings (Baylor University. Medical Center), 18, 244–258.<br>27. ^  _a _ _b _ _c _ _d _ Ruppert, Fox & Barnes (2004) , pp. 537

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) more_than_two_sexes/Sexualreproduction_79_3.txt
> [42]  One fish species does not reproduce by sexual<br>reproduction but uses sex to produce offspring; _[ Poecilia formosa<br>](/wiki/Poecilia_formosa "Poecilia formosa") _ is a unisex species that uses a<br>form of [ parthenogenesis ](/wiki/Parthenogenesis "Parthenogenesis") called [<br>gynogenesis ](/wiki/Gynogenesis "Gynogenesis"), where unfertilized eggs<br>develop into embryos that produce female offspring. _Poecilia formosa_ mate

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) neanderthals_vitamin_C_diet/Human_5_27.txt
> almost every population around the world. There are intersex conditions in the human population, however these are rare.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, more_than_two_sexes/Mating_type_0.txt
> Mating types are the microorganism equivalent to sexes in multicellular lifeforms and are thought to be the ancestor to distinct sexes. They also occur in macro-organisms such as fungi.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, more_than_two_sexes/Mating_type_1.txt
> Definition[edit]<br>Mating types are the microorganism equivalent to sex in higher organisms and occur in isogamous and anisogamous species. Depending on the group, different mating types are often referred to by numbers, letters, or simply "+" and "−" instead of "male" and "female", which refer to "sexes" or differences in size between gametes. Syngamy can only take place between gametes carrying different mating types.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 52, more_than_two_sexes/Mating_type_3.txt
> Evolution[edit]<br>Main article: Evolution of sexual reproduction<br>Mating types likely predate anisogamy, and sexes evolved directly from mating types or independently in some lineages.<br>In 2006 Japanese researchers found a gene in males of the alga Pleodorina starrii that’s an orthologue to a gene for a mating type in the alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, providing evidence for an evolutionary link between sexes and mating types.<br>Secondary mating types evolved alongside simultaneous hermaphrodites in several lineages.<br>In Volvocales, the plus mating type is the ancestor to female. In ciliates multiple mating types evolved from binary mating types in several lineages. As of 2019, genomic conflict has been considered the leading explanation for the evolution of two mating types.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, more_than_two_sexes/Mating_type_2.txt
> Occurrence[edit]<br>Reproduction by mating types is especially prevalent in fungi. Filamentous ascomycetes usually have two mating types referred to as "MAT1-1" and "MAT1-2", following the yeast mating-type locus (MAT). Under standard nomenclature, MAT1-1 (which may informally be called MAT1) encodes for a regulatory protein with an alpha box motif, while MAT1-2 (informally called MAT2) encodes for a protein with a high motility-group (HMG) DNA-binding motif, as in the yeast mating type MATα1. The corresponding mating types in yeast, a non-filamentous ascomycete, are referred to as MATa and MATα.<br>Mating type genes in ascomycetes are called idiomorphs rather than alleles due to the uncertainty of the origin by common descent. The proteins they encode are transcription factors which regulate both the early and late stages of the sexual cycle. Heterothallic ascomycetes produce gametes, which present a single Mat idiomorph, and syngamy will only be possible between gametes carrying complementary mating types. On the other hand, homothallic ascomycetes produce gametes that can fuse with every other gamete in the population (including its own mitotic descendants) most often because each haploid contains the two alternate forms of the Mat locus in its genome.<br>Basidiomycetes can have thousands of different mating types.<br>In the ascomycete Neurospora crassa matings are restricted to interaction of strains of opposite mating type. This promotes some degree of outcrossing.  Outcrossing, through complementation, could provide the benefit of masking recessive deleterious mutations in genes which function in the dikaryon and/or diploid stage of the life cycle.
