# Query `74`

*Why do birches have a white bark?
Several species of the tree genres Betula have a white bark,especially when they are young. This is quite peculiar to trees - at least in central Europe; so I'm wondering if there is a ecological reason behind it.
The first idea I have is that they protection against the sun. But normally protection of nature against the sun is to make the opposite: put more pigments in the skin, so that the sun does not damage the underlying DNA. If this is the explanation, how do other tree species protect against this?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1429
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.2500
recall_25: 0.7500
recall_50: 0.7500
recall_100: 0.7500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1301
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3309
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3309
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3309
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0357
map_cut_25: 0.1228
map_cut_50: 0.1228
map_cut_100: 0.1228
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) trees_grow_directions/Tree_4_9.txt
> . Similarly, the bark of the silver birch (Betula pendula) peels off in strips. As the tree's girth expands, newer layers of bark are larger in circumference, and the older layers develop fissures in many species. In some trees such as the pine (Pinus species) the bark exudes sticky resin which deters attackers whereas in rubber trees (Hevea brasiliensis) it is a milky latex that oozes out. The quinine bark tree (Cinchona officinalis) contains bitter substances to make the bark unpalatable

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) birches_white_bark/whitebarkpineprotect_12_0.txt
> The whitebark pine is a keystone species in high-elevation areas. It provides<br>food for grizzly bears and many other species. The trees also slow snowmelt,<br>helping to maintain stream flow into the summer months, which benefits fish<br>and other aquatic species.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) birches_white_bark/whitebarkpinereceive_80_0.txt
> To learn more about the whitebark pine, please visit the [ species profile<br>page ](/species/whitebark-pine-pinus-albicaulis), additional questions and<br>answers about the listing of this species can be found on our website: [ Q&As:<br>Whitebark pine listing as Threatened ](/project/qas-whitebark-pine-listing-<br>threatened "Q&As: Whitebark pine listing as Threatened").

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) birches_white_bark/northendangeredspeci_65_3.txt
> -whitebark-<br>pine/"ecosystem</a: Its branches create shade, which helps retain snowpack,<br>and its roots hold the soil in place, preventing erosion. Whitebark pine cones<br>nourish animals like grizzlies and Clark’s nutcrackers and serve as a protein-<br>rich Indigenous food source. At a conference on whitebark pine conservation in<br>2019, the late Selis-Qlispe tribal elder Tony Incashola Sr. remembered<br>snacking on pine nuts when he was growing up on the Flathead Reservation.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) birches_white_bark/northendangeredspeci_28_0.txt
> The tree plays important roles in the [ ecosystem<br>](https://www.americanforests.org/save-the-whitebark-pine/) : Its branches<br>create shade, which helps retain snowpack, and its roots hold the soil in<br>place, preventing erosion. Whitebark pine cones nourish animals like grizzlies<br>and Clark’s nutcrackers and serve as a protein-rich Indigenous food source. At<br>a conference on whitebark pine conservation in 2019, the late Selis-Qlispe<br>tribal elder Tony Incashola Sr


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 17, birches_white_bark/Sun_scald_1.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>The reason the sun can cause so much damage to trees is because of dormancy. When a tree is dormant in the winter it can be reactivated by warm weather. In the northern woods trees are exposed to the most sunlight and heat on the southwest facing side, so this side is heated during warm sunny winter days (in the afternoon, that's why westwards) to the point that it can be awoken from dormancy. The temperature required to wake up a tree depends on plant species and length of day, but it is typically just above freezing. Once active, the cells on the southwest side of the plant are unable to return to dormancy by nightfall, at which time the temperature returns to levels capable of killing active cells. Fluctuating winter temperatures can also cause frost cracks, which result from the expanding and contracting of the tree trunk.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 10, birches_white_bark/Sun_scald_4.txt
> Treatments[edit]<br>The treatment of sun scalding is fundamentally simple: reduce the intensity of the sun, or block the sun completely.<br>Wrapping[edit]<br>The most common method used to prevent sun scalding on the trunks of trees is to wrap the tree up to the first branch with white paper overlapping approximately thirty three percent each time around the tree. The white paper is effective in reflecting the heat of the sun off the tree. The paper should be applied after the tree has gone dormant for the winter and taken off before it becomes active again. If the paper is left on too long it can interfere with the growth of the tree and harbor insects that may damage the tree.<br>Painting[edit]<br>Painting the tree white has the same effect as wrapping, although it is a permanent change to the color of the tree. This discoloration can be aesthetically displeasing, so this method is mostly used in orchards and rarely in landscaping.<br>Shading[edit]<br>The amount of light a tree receives on its southwest side is correlated with the amount of sun scald the tree endures. Reducing the amount of light the tree is exposed to by planting a shrub or bush strategically to shade the southwest side can be less effective than wrapping or painting, but can have better aesthetic qualities for landscaping.<br>Fruits[edit]<br>For fruit the most important part of avoiding sun scald is to be aware of where the fruit has been during its growth. If the fruit grew in the shade then exposing it to the sun will be likely to yield damage to the produce. Because of the importance of keeping shaded fruits out of the sun, leaves of fruit plants should be monitored for wilting and disease. If the leaves that shade a fruit die, the fruit will be exposed and in danger of sun scald. Another measure that can be taken to avoid damage is covering the fruits with straw or screen to block the sun.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, birches_white_bark/Sun_scald_0.txt
> Sun scald is the freezing of bark following high temperatures in the winter season, resulting in permanent visible damage to bark. Fruits may also be damaged. In the northern hemisphere, it is also called southwest injury.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 6, birches_white_bark/Sun_scald_2.txt
> Trees[edit]<br>Sun scald on ash bark<br>Slugs sheltering in a sun scald fissure<br>When sun scald appears on trees it is most frequently a result of reflected light off the snow during winter months. The damage in this case will appear as sunken or dead bark on the trunk of the tree, then later in the tree's life the bark might fall away revealing dead tissue in the tree's cambium layer. This damage will typically be found on the south west facing side of the tree's trunk. It can be found on other sides of the tree if there is light reflection from other sources, like man made structures or reflective rock faces. After a tree is afflicted by sun scald it becomes much more vulnerable to decay organisms. The plant will create walls around the affected area, but sometimes it is not enough to block the infections. The leaves of the tree are also affected by sun scald, particularly on a bright sunny day following a period of warm cloudy humidity. The damage to the leaves will start as bronzing of the epidermis between the veins of the leaf, and if the sunny conditions persist the tissue of the leaf will die.
