# Query `75`

*Why does the ring finger not move independently?
Why is it that we need to move little finger in order to move ring finger with it? For example, put your palm on a table and fold your middle finger inside. You won't be able to move your ring finger unless you move your little finger along with it. Why? Paul Gilbert and Buckethead and various other guitarists are the only people that I'm aware of that use the ring finger and looks independent. Is it possible to have surgery to make the fingers independent or is it not functional to do that?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0345
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.6667
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1871
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1871
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0311
map_cut_100: 0.0311
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Littlefinger_51_0.txt
> The little finger is nearly impossible for most people to bend independently<br>(without also bending the ring finger), due to the nerves for each digit being<br>intertwined.  [ _[ citation needed  ](/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed<br>"Wikipedia:Citation needed") _ ]  There are also nine muscles that control the<br>fifth digit: Three in the [ hypothenar eminence ](/wiki/Hypothenar_eminence<br>"Hypothenar eminence"), two extrinsic flexors, two extrinsic extensors

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Littlefinger_52_2.txt
> superficialis")<br> [ Flexor digitorum profundus ](/wiki/Flexor_digitorum_profundus "Flexor digitorum profundus")<br> Two extrinsic extensors:<br> [ Extensor digiti minimi muscle ](/wiki/Extensor_digiti_minimi_muscle "Extensor digiti minimi muscle")<br> [ Extensor digitorum ](/wiki/Extensor_digitorum "Extensor digitorum")<br> Two intrinsic hand muscles:

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) hot_water_bacteria/Hand_1_14.txt
> interlocking shapes of the metacarpal bones. The thumb metacarpal only articulates with the trapezium and is therefore completely independent, while the fifth metacarpal (little finger) is semi-independent with the fourth metacarpal (ring finger) which forms a transitional element to the fifth metacarpal.<br>Together with the thumb, the four fingers form four oblique arches, of which the arch of the index finger functionally is the most important, especially for precision grip, while the arch of the little finger contribute an important locking mechanism for power grip

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Littlefinger_52_3.txt
> Fourth [ lumbrical muscle ](/wiki/Lumbricals_of_the_hand "Lumbricals of the hand")<br> Third [ palmar interosseous muscle ](/wiki/Palmar_interossei "Palmar interossei")

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) ring_finger_not_move/Littlefinger_53_0.txt
> _Note: the[ dorsal interossei of the hand<br>](/wiki/Dorsal_interossei_of_the_hand "Dorsal interossei of the hand") muscles<br>do not have an attachment to the fifth digit _


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, ring_finger_not_move/Extrinsic_extensor_muscles_of_the_hand_0.txt
> The extrinsic extensor muscles of the hand are located in the back of the forearm and have long tendons connecting them to bones in the hand, where they exert their action. Extrinsic denotes their location outside the hand. Extensor denotes their action which is to extend, or open flat, joints in the hand. They include the extensor carpi radialis longus (ECRL), extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB), extensor digitorum (ED), extensor digiti minimi (EDM), extensor carpi ulnaris (ECU), abductor pollicis longus (APL), extensor pollicis brevis (EPB), extensor pollicis longus (EPL), and extensor indicis (EI).

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 33, ring_finger_not_move/Extrinsic_extensor_muscles_of_the_hand_5.txt
> Insertion and action[edit]<br>Insertions<br>The ECRL inserts into the dorsal surface of the base of the second metacarpal bone on its radial side to extend and abduct the wrist. The ECRB inserts into the lateral dorsal surface of the base of the third metacarpal bone, with a few fibres inserting into the medial dorsal surface of the second metacarpal bone, also to extend and abduct the wrist. The ED inserts into the middle and distal phalanges to extend the fingers and wrist. Opposite the head of the second metacarpal bone, the EI joins the ulnar side of the ED tendon to extend the index finger. The EDM has a similar role for the little finger. The ECU inserts at the base of the 5th metacarpal to extend and adduct the wrist. The APL inserts into the radial side of the base of the first metacarpal bone to abduct the thumb at the carpometacarpal joint and may continue to abduct the wrist. The EPB inserts into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb to extend and abduct the thumb at the carpometacarpal and MCP joints.<br>The EPL inserts on the base of the distal phalanx of the thumb. It uses the dorsal tubercle on the radius as fulcrum to help the EPB with its action as well as extending the distal phalanx of the thumb. Because the index finger and little finger have separate extensors, these fingers can be moved more independently than the other fingers.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 28, ring_finger_not_move/Extrinsic_extensor_muscles_of_the_hand_3.txt
> Extensor digitorum tendons[edit]<br>The ED tendons are more complex in their course. Opposite the metacarpophalangeal joint each tendon is bound by fasciculi to the collateral ligaments and serves as the dorsal ligament of this joint; after having crossed the joint, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx and is reinforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the Interossei and Lumbricalis.<br>Opposite the first interphalangeal joints this aponeurosis divides into three slips; an intermediate and two collateral: the former is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and the two collateral, which are continued onward along the sides of the second phalanx, unite by their contiguous margins, and are inserted into the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the interphalangeal joints, they furnish them with dorsal ligaments. The tendon to the index finger is accompanied by the EI, which lies on its ulnar side. On the back of the hand, the tendons to the middle, ring, and little fingers are connected by two obliquely placed bands, one from the third tendon passing downward and lateralward to the second tendon, and the other passing from the same tendon downward and medialward to the fourth.<br>Occasionally the first tendon is connected to the second by a thin transverse band. Collectively, these are known as the sagittal bands; they serve to maintain the central alignment of the extensor tendons over the metacarpal head, thus increasing the available leverage. Injuries (such as by an external flexion force during active extension) may allow the tendon to dislocate into the intermetacarpal space; the extensor tendon then acts as a flexor and the finger may no longer be actively extended. This may be corrected surgically by using a slip of the extensor tendon to replace the damaged ligamentous band
