# Query `78`

*Is it possible for a human to wake up in a wrong way?
There's an old folk saying that goes like "He got out of bed on a wrong foot" - to indicate that the person's day is going poorly because of the way that person woke up.
Is it is possible for a human to disrupt the awakening process, causing negative cognitive side effects for the rest of the day? If so, how long does it take to restore normal cognition?
There's this related question that I asked - if different parts of a human brain can be asleep independently of each other? This question is a variation on that one, and specifically deals with the process of awakening or activating brain regions in the morning.
I'm aware of the concept of "Sleep inertia". However, it does not seem to be the phenomenon in question, as sleep inertia is frequently mentioned in the context of napping. (where napping over a certain time leads to sleep inertia). Additionally, sleep inertia has been described in terms of decline of motor activity, and not as cognitive side effects lasting for a whole day.
From personal experience, it seems that I'm doing best if I get out of bed immediately following a natural awakening, even if it is rather early, as opposed to snoozing for another 30-40 minutes.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1429
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1564
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1564
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1564
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2362
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0476
map_cut_25: 0.0476
map_cut_50: 0.0476
map_cut_100: 0.0591
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/sleepinertiacurrenti_67_0.txt
> Thus, the neurobehavioral impairments observed after waking appear to be due<br>to a delay in transitioning several independent neurophysiological processes<br>and that this transitional lag is most evident in regions related to higher<br>order processes necessary for cognitive tasks.  14 ,  16  –  19 ,  21  –  26<br>These transitions could be targeted in the development of novel interventions<br>to enhance the transition from sleep to a fully alert state.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/PMC5136610_42_1.txt
> Czeisler CA (1999) Time course of sleep inertia dissipation in human performance and alertness. J Sleep Res 8, 1–8. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]<br>4. Tietzel AJ, Lack LC (2001) The short-term benefits of brief and long naps following nocturnal sleep restriction. Sleep 24, 293–300. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]<br>5. Scheer FA, Shea TJ, Hilton MF, Shea SA (2008) An endogenous circadian rhythm in sleep inertia results in greatest cognitive impairment upon awakening during the biological

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/s4010102200317w_48_0.txt
> ."), [ 13 ](/articles/10.1186/s40101-022-00317-w#ref-CR13 "Cavallero C, Versace F. Stage at awakening, sleep inertia and performance. Sleep Res Online. 2003;3:89–97.") ], circadian timing of awakening [ [ 14 ](/articles/10.1186/s40101-022-00317-w#ref-CR14 "McHill AW, Hull JT, Cohen DA, Wang W, Czeisler CA, Klerman EB.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/sleepinertiacurrenti_184_0.txt
> 66\.  Horne J, Moseley R. Sudden early-morning awakening impairs immediate<br>tactical planning in a changing ‘emergency’ scenario. _J Sleep Res_.<br>2011;20(2):275–278. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2869.2010.00904.x

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/s41467022345032_37_0.txt
> In addition, the inability to transition effectively to a state of functional<br>cognitive alertness upon awakening from sleep—known as “sleep inertia”  [ 4<br>](/articles/s41467-022-34503-2#ref-CR4 "Vallat, R., Meunier, D., Nicolas, A. &<br>Ruby, P. Hard to wake up? The cerebral correlates of sleep inertia assessed<br>using combined behavioral, EEG and fMRI measures. Neuroimage 184, 266–278<br>\(2019\).") —is a serious safety risk for


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, wake_up_wrong/Sleep_inertia_1.txt
> Symptoms[edit]<br>"Grogginess", as defined by a drowsy or disoriented state in which there is a dampening of sensory acuity and mental processing.<br>Impaired motor dexterity and decrease in cognitive ability. These gross impairments may be responsible for the associated increase in reaction time and drop in attentiveness.<br>Deficits in spatial memory<br>Reports of heightened subjective fatigue<br>Reduced vigilance and a desire to go back to sleep<br>These symptoms are expressed with the greatest intensity immediately after waking, and dissipate following a period of extended wakefulness. The duration of symptoms varies on a conditional basis, with primary expression during the first 15–60 minutes after waking and potentially extending for several hours.  Tasks that require more complex cognitive operations will feature greater deficits as compared to a simple motor task; the accuracy of sensory and motor functioning is more impaired by sleep inertia as compared to sheer speed.  In order to measure the cognitive and motor deficiencies associated with sleep inertia, a battery of tests may be utilized, including: the psychomotor vigilance task, descending subtraction task (DST), auditory reaction time task, and the finger tapping task.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 6, wake_up_wrong/Sleep_inertia_2.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>Studies have shown that abrupt awakening during stage 3 sleep, slow-wave sleep (SWS), produces more sleep inertia than awakening during sleep stages 1, 2 or REM sleep.<br>Prior sleep deprivation increases the percentage of time spent in slow-wave sleep (SWS). Therefore, an individual who was previously sleep deprived will have a greater chance of experiencing sleep inertia.<br>Adenosine levels in the brain progressively increase with sleep deprivation, and return to normal during sleep.  Upon awakening with sleep deprivation, high amounts of adenosine will be bound to receptors in the brain, neural activity slows down, and a feeling of tiredness will result.<br>Studies show that individuals express a lack of blood flow to the brain upon awakening. Levels of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral blood flow velocities (CBFV) will take up to 30 minutes to increase and reach daytime levels.  Studies using advanced imaging have shown that cerebral blood flow will return to waking levels in the brainstem and thalamus first. Then, after 15 minutes, the brain's anterior cortical regions receive normal daytime blood flow. This 15 minute time period corresponds to the sleep inertia period.<br>Studies show that drinking alcoholic beverages in the evening causes physiological distress upon wake up. This phenomenon is known colloquially as a hangover.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 57, wake_up_wrong/Sleep_inertia_0.txt
> Sleep inertia is a physiological state of impaired cognitive and sensory-motor performance that is present immediately after awakening. It persists during the transition of sleep to wakefulness, where an individual will experience feelings of drowsiness, disorientation and a decline in motor dexterity. Impairment from sleep inertia may take several hours to dissipate. In the majority of cases, morning sleep inertia is experienced for 15 to 30 minutes after waking.<br>Sleep inertia is of concern with decision-making abilities, safety-critical tasks and the ability to operate efficiently soon after awakening. In these situations, it poses an occupational hazard due to the cognitive and motor deficits that may be present.
