# Query `80`

*What causes adenosine build up in the brain when awake?
Adenosine is an important hormone in sleep regulation. It is postulated that when a person is awake, there is a build up of adenosine in the brain, which inhibits the neurons in the brain, and produces tiredness. (See answer for more information: What causes humans to be sleepy?)
However, I am wondering what specifically causes this adenosine build up. I understand ATP (adenosine tri-phosphate) is broken down to ADP in the brain to produce energy. I thought this ADP would then be used to re-generate ATP again etc, so I'm not sure how adenosine is built up in the brain over a day.
Basically I am unsure how Adenosine itself, as opposed to ATP or ADP, is produced during the waking state?
My theory is that during the high demand waking state there is insufficient energy to convert ADP back to ATP, and the excess ADP is broken down to adenosine somehow.
I would appreciate an explanation of how this build up occurs, and also an explanation of how this in turn how it induces sleepiness would be a plus.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0105
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0593
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0026
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/s41467022345032_237_0.txt
> 17. Porkka-Heiskanen, T. & Kalinchuk, A. V. Adenosine, energy metabolism and sleep homeostasis. _Sleep. Med. Rev._ 15, 123–135 (2011).

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) induce_sleep/Adenosinediphosphate_176_0.txt
> ADP<br> [ AMP ](/wiki/Adenosine_monophosphate "Adenosine monophosphate")<br> [ ATP ](/wiki/Adenosine_triphosphate "Adenosine triphosphate")

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) induce_sleep/Adenosinediphosphate_175_0.txt
> |  [ Adenosine ](/wiki/Adenosine "Adenosine") system  |

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) induce_sleep/Adenosinetriphosphat_258_0.txt
> |  [ Adenosine ](/wiki/Adenosine "Adenosine") system  |

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) induce_sleep/Adenosinetriphosphat_259_0.txt
> [ ADP ](/wiki/Adenosine_diphosphate "Adenosine diphosphate")<br> [ AMP ](/wiki/Adenosine_monophosphate "Adenosine monophosphate")<br> ATP


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 94, induce_sleep/Adenosine_A1_receptor_1.txt
> Biochemistry[edit]<br>A1 receptors are implicated in sleep promotion by inhibiting wake-promoting cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. A1 receptors are also present in smooth muscle throughout the vascular system.<br>The adenosine A1 receptor has been found to be ubiquitous throughout the entire body.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, induce_sleep/Adenosine_A1_receptor_0.txt
> The adenosine A1 receptor (A1AR)  is one member of the adenosine receptor group of G protein-coupled receptors with adenosine as endogenous ligand.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, induce_sleep/Adenosine_A1_receptor_3.txt
> Effect[edit]<br>This receptor has an inhibitory function on most of the tissues in which it rests. In the brain, it slows metabolic activity by a combination of actions. At the neuron's synapse, it reduces synaptic vesicle release.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, induce_sleep/Adenosine_A1_receptor_2.txt
> Signaling[edit]<br>Activation of the adenosine A1 receptor by an agonist causes binding of Gi1/2/3 or Go protein. Binding of Gi1/2/3 causes an inhibition of adenylate cyclase and, therefore, a decrease in the cAMP concentration. An increase of the inositol triphosphate/diacylglycerol concentration is caused by an activation of phospholipase C, whereas the elevated levels of arachidonic acid are mediated by DAG lipase, which cleaves DAG to form arachidonic acid.<br>Several types of potassium channels are activated but N-, P-, and Q-type calcium channels are inhibited.
