# Query `82`

*Do snakes get dizzy?
I've seen snakes get captured in sacks and I've wondered if the snake would get dizzy if the sack were twirled around. I have not done any tests (and don't plan to) because snakes scare me.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1238
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2194
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0167
map_cut_100: 0.0286
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) snake_dizzy/6422dizziness_40_0.txt
> No, but you can manage dizziness. If you’re feeling dizzy, lie down until<br>dizziness passes. When you get up, be sure to move slowly and carefully.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) mints_make_your_mouth_feel_cold/Menthol_10_1.txt
> and vertigo.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) snake_dizzy/syc20371787_206_1.txt
> iness-and-vertigo. Accessed Aug. 5, 2018.<br>3. Dizziness and motion sickness. American Academy of Otolaryngology — Head and Neck Surgery. https://www.entnet.org//content/dizziness-and-motion-sickness. Accessed Aug. 5, 2018.<br>4. Flint PW, et al. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery. 6th ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: Saunders Elsevier; 2015. https://www.clinicalkey.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_113_0.txt
> Main article: [ Optokinetic response ](/wiki/Optokinetic_response "Optokinetic<br>response")

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) snake_dizzy/viewtopicphpt4402_47_2.txt
> fairly common, given how excited some<br>species get when feeding (i.e. cottonmouths, cantils, etc.), and they probably<br>have evolved some resistance to venoms...? Vic


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 83, snake_dizzy/Vertigo_2.txt
> Signs and symptoms[edit]<br>A drawing showing the sensation of vertigo<br>Vertigo is a sensation of spinning while stationary. It is commonly associated with nausea or vomiting, unsteadiness (postural instability), falls, changes to a person's thoughts, and difficulties in walking. Recurrent episodes in those with vertigo are common and frequently impair the quality of life. Blurred vision, difficulty in speaking, a lowered level of consciousness, and hearing loss may also occur. The signs and symptoms of vertigo can present as a persistent (insidious) onset or an episodic (sudden) onset.<br>Persistent onset vertigo is characterized by symptoms lasting for longer than one day and is caused by degenerative changes that affect balance as people age. Nerve conduction slows with aging, and a decreased vibratory sensation is common as a result. Additionally, there is a degeneration of the ampulla and otolith organs with an increase in age. Persistent onset is commonly paired with central vertigo signs and symptoms.<br>The characteristics of an episodic onset vertigo are indicated by symptoms lasting for a smaller, more memorable amount of time, typically lasting for only seconds to minutes.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 29, snake_dizzy/Vertigo_0.txt
> Vertigo is a condition in which a person has the sensation of movement or of surrounding objects moving when they are not. Often it feels like a spinning or swaying movement. It may be associated with nausea, vomiting, perspiration, or difficulties walking. It is typically worse when the head is moved. Vertigo is the most common type of dizziness.<br>The most common disorders that result in vertigo are benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), Ménière's disease, and vestibular neuritis. Less common causes include stroke, brain tumors, brain injury, multiple sclerosis, migraines, trauma, and uneven pressures between the middle ears. Physiologic vertigo may occur following being exposed to motion for a prolonged period such as when on a ship or simply following spinning with the eyes closed. Other causes may include toxin exposures such as to carbon monoxide, alcohol, or aspirin. Vertigo typically indicates a problem in a part of the vestibular system. Other causes of dizziness include presyncope, disequilibrium, and non-specific dizziness.<br>Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is more likely in someone who gets repeated episodes of vertigo with movement and is otherwise normal between these episodes. Benign vertigo episodes generally last less than one minute. The Dix-Hallpike test typically produces a period of rapid eye movements known as nystagmus in this condition. In Ménière's disease there is often ringing in the ears, hearing loss, and the attacks of vertigo last more than twenty minutes. In vestibular neuritis the onset of vertigo is sudden, and the nystagmus occurs even when the person has not been moving. In this condition vertigo can last for days. More severe causes should also be considered, especially if other problems such as weakness, headache, double vision, or numbness occur.<br>Dizziness affects approximately 20–40% of people at some point in time, while about 7.5–10% have vertigo. About 5% have vertigo in a given year. It becomes more common with age and affects women two to three times more often than men. Vertigo accounts for about 2–3% of emergency department visits in the developed world.
