# Query `83`

*Why do adult insects have 6 legs?
Apparently, there is an advantage to having 6 legs in the insect world. What is that advantage, if anything? Why would such an advantage exist for insects, but not for other, larger land animals?
What do those middle legs do that the front and hind legs cannot, if anything? Are they really essential, or do they just generate more muscle power?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0099
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) insects_attracted_to_light/Insect_8_4.txt
> Spatial and temporal stepping pattern of walking desert ants performing an alternating tripod gait. Recording rate: 500 fps, Playback rate: 10 fps.<br>Many adult insects use six legs for walking, with an alternating tripod gait. This allows for rapid walking with a stable stance; it has been studied extensively in cockroaches and ants. For the first step, the middle right leg and the front and rear left legs are in contact with the ground and move the insect forward, while the front and rear right leg and the middle left leg are lifted and moved forward to a new position.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) insescts_six_legs/eli5howdoinsectlegsw_74_0.txt
> 2 more replies<br>apple-masher<br>•<br>2y ago<br>Not all insect legs work the same way.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) insescts_six_legs/Arthropodleg_68_0.txt
> Except in species in which legs have been lost or become vestigial through<br>evolutionary adaptation, adult insects have six legs, one pair attached to<br>each of the three segments of the thorax. They have paired appendages on some<br>other segments, in particular, [ mouthparts ](/wiki/Insect_mouthparts "Insect<br>mouthparts"), [ antennae ](/wiki/Antenna_\(biology\) "Antenna \(biology\)")<br>and [ cerci ](/wiki/Cercus "Cercus"), all of

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) insescts_six_legs/S1467803908000650_6_1.txt
> Middle legs were preferred as they are less specialized, compared to the front legs (often palpatory) or hind legs (sometimes saltatory or with limited motility of the coxa).

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) insescts_six_legs/eli5howdoinsectlegsw_29_0.txt
> Skip to main content<br>ELI5: How do insect legs work, do they have something like muscle? : r/explainlikeimfive


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, insescts_six_legs/Walking_9.txt
> Animals[edit]<br><br>Main article: Terrestrial locomotion<br><br>See also: Gait<br>Horses[edit]<br><br>Main article: Horse gait<br>The walk, a four-beat gait<br>The walk is a four-beat gait that averages about 4 miles per hour (6.4 km/h). When walking, a horse's legs follow this sequence: left hind leg, left front leg, right hind leg, right front leg, in a regular 1-2-3-4 beat. At the walk, the horse will always have one foot raised and the other three feet on the ground, save for a brief moment when weight is being transferred from one foot to another. A horse moves its head and neck in a slight up and down motion that helps maintain balance.<br>Ideally, the advancing rear hoof oversteps the spot where the previously advancing front hoof touched the ground. The more the rear hoof oversteps, the smoother and more comfortable the walk becomes. Individual horses and different breeds vary in the smoothness of their walk. However, a rider will almost always feel some degree of gentle side-to-side motion in the horse's hips as each hind leg reaches forward.<br>The fastest "walks" with a four-beat footfall pattern are actually the lateral forms of ambling gaits such as the running walk, singlefoot, and similar rapid but smooth intermediate speed gaits. If a horse begins to speed up and lose a regular four-beat cadence to its gait, the horse is no longer walking but is beginning to either trot or pace.<br>Elephants[edit]<br>An Asian elephant walking<br>Elephants can move both forwards and backwards, but cannot trot, jump, or gallop. They use only two gaits when moving on land, the walk and a faster gait similar to running. In walking, the legs act as pendulums, with the hips and shoulders rising and falling while the foot is planted on the ground. With no "aerial phase", the fast gait does not meet all the criteria of running, although the elephant uses its legs much like other running animals, with the hips and shoulders falling and then rising while the feet are on the ground. Fast-moving elephants appear to 'run' with their front legs, but 'walk' with their hind legs and can reach a top speed of 18 km/h (11 mph). At this speed, most other quadrupeds are well into a gallop, even accounting for leg length.<br>Walking fish[edit]<br><br>Main article: Walking fish<br>A mudskipper, a type of walking fish, perched on land<br>Walking fish (or ambulatory fish) are fish that are able to travel over land for extended periods of time. The term may also be used for some other cases of nonstandard fish locomotion, e.g., when describing fish "walking" along the sea floor, as the handfish or frogfish.<br>Insects[edit]<br>Insects must carefully coordinate their six legs during walking to produce gaits that allow for efficient navigation of their environment. Interleg coordination patterns have been studied in a variety of insects, including locusts (Schistocerca gregaria), cockroaches (Periplaneta americana), stick insects (Carausius morosus), and fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster). Different walking gaits have been observed to exist on a speed dependent continuum of phase relationships. Even though their walking gaits are not discrete, they can often be broadly categorized as either a metachronal wave gait, tetrapod gait, or tripod gait.<br>In a metachronal wave gait, only one leg leaves contact with the ground at a time. This gait starts at one of the hind legs, then propagates forward to the mid and front legs on the same side before starting at the hind leg of the contralateral side. The wave gait is often used at slow walking speeds and is the most stable, since five legs are always in contact with the ground at a time.<br>In a tetrapod gait, two legs swing at a time while the other four legs remain in contact with the ground. There are multiple configurations for tetrapod gaits, but the legs that swing together must be on contralateral sides of the body. Tetrapod gaits are typically used at medium speeds and are also very stable.<br>A walking gait is considered tripod if three of the legs enter the swing phase simultaneously, while the other three legs make contact with the ground. The middle leg of one side swings with the hind and front legs on the contralateral side. Tripod gaits are most commonly used at high speeds, though it can be used at lower speeds. The tripod gait is less stable than wave-like and tetrapod gaits, but it is theorized to be the most robust. This means that it is easier for an insect to recover from an offset in step timing when walking in a tripod gait. The ability to respond robustly is important for insects when traversing uneven terrain.
