# Query `85`

*Why is cancer not a communicable disease?
I read another question where the author is asking about the infectivity of viruses. In the same vein, I am curious why cancer is not a communicable disease.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.9197
ndcg_cut_10: 0.9197
ndcg_cut_25: 0.9197
ndcg_cut_50: 0.9197
ndcg_cut_100: 0.9197
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.8333
map_cut_10: 0.8333
map_cut_25: 0.8333
map_cut_50: 0.8333
map_cut_100: 0.8333
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) cancer_not_communicable/Clonally_transmissible_cancer_0.txt
> A transmissible cancer is a cancer cell or cluster of cancer cells that can be transferred between individuals without the involvement of an infectious agent, such as an Oncovirus. The evolution of transmissible cancer has occurred naturally in other animal species, but human cancer transmission is rare. This transfer is typically between members of the same species or closely related species.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) cancer_not_communicable/Clonally_transmissible_cancer_3_1.txt
> missible cancers being known. The evolution of transmissible cancer is unlikely, because the cell clone must be adapted to survive a physical transmission of living cells between hosts, and must be able to survive in the environment of a new host's immune system. Animals that have undergone population bottlenecks may be at greater risks of contracting transmissible cancers due to a lack of overall genetic diversity. Infectious cancers may also evolve to circumvent immune response by means of natural selection in order to spread. Because of their transmission, it was initially thought that these diseases were caused by the transfer of oncoviruses

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) cancer_not_communicable/Clonally_transmissible_cancer_1.txt
> General mechanism[edit]<br>Transmissible cancers require a specific combination of related circumstances to occur. These conditions involve both the host species and the tumors being transferred. These typically include, low genetic diversity among individuals, effective physical and environmental transport system, effective dose of infective material and ideal micro-environments.  The cancers reproduce faster in larger quantities with different means of reproduction tend to be favored for transmission if host conditions are met. Transmissible cancers follow the general pattern of cancer spread, starting with the growth of primary cancer cells at tumor sites  followed by invasion of surrounding tissue and subsequent spread throughout the organism. The main hurdles for surviving cells of a successful spread to a new host are histocompatibility barriers. The cancers have to bypass the self recognition system, survive the difference in nutrients and induce the correct response in the new hosts to begin the cycle anew.<br>Transmissible cancers behave as true parasites, relying primarily on transport systems like direct contact, environmental transport and vectors, rather than hematogenous and lymphatic carriers to spread between organisms. The amount of shredded cancer cells from initial host has to be high enough to increase survival probability. Direct contact transmissions through sexual or general contact such as in DFTD and CVTD ensures a higher potential for transmission. Population factors also play an important role. A dense population of available and uninfected potential hosts is ideal for the tumors given the complexity and difficulty of the overall process, hence its virulence and potency must be adequately controlled.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) cancer_not_communicable/viruseshtml_363_0.txt
> Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans. Our growing knowledge of the<br>role of viruses as a cause of cancer has led to the development of vaccines to<br>help prevent certain human cancers. But these vaccines can only protect<br>against infections if they are given before the person is exposed to the<br>cancer-promoting virus.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) genetic_sequence_of_SARS-CoV-2/Virus_5_14.txt
> to the pandemic.<br>Cancer<br><br>Further information: Oncovirus<br>Viruses are an established cause of cancer in humans and other species. Viral cancers occur only in a minority of infected persons (or animals). Cancer viruses come from a range of virus families, including both RNA and DNA viruses, and so there is no single type of "oncovirus" (an obsolete term originally used for acutely transforming retroviruses). The development of cancer is determined by a variety of factors such as host immunity and mutations in the host. Viruses accepted to cause human cancers


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, cancer_not_communicable/Clonally_transmissible_cancer_0.txt
> A transmissible cancer is a cancer cell or cluster of cancer cells that can be transferred between individuals without the involvement of an infectious agent, such as an Oncovirus. The evolution of transmissible cancer has occurred naturally in other animal species, but human cancer transmission is rare. This transfer is typically between members of the same species or closely related species.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 2, cancer_not_communicable/Clonally_transmissible_cancer_1.txt
> General mechanism[edit]<br>Transmissible cancers require a specific combination of related circumstances to occur. These conditions involve both the host species and the tumors being transferred. These typically include, low genetic diversity among individuals, effective physical and environmental transport system, effective dose of infective material and ideal micro-environments.  The cancers reproduce faster in larger quantities with different means of reproduction tend to be favored for transmission if host conditions are met. Transmissible cancers follow the general pattern of cancer spread, starting with the growth of primary cancer cells at tumor sites  followed by invasion of surrounding tissue and subsequent spread throughout the organism. The main hurdles for surviving cells of a successful spread to a new host are histocompatibility barriers. The cancers have to bypass the self recognition system, survive the difference in nutrients and induce the correct response in the new hosts to begin the cycle anew.<br>Transmissible cancers behave as true parasites, relying primarily on transport systems like direct contact, environmental transport and vectors, rather than hematogenous and lymphatic carriers to spread between organisms. The amount of shredded cancer cells from initial host has to be high enough to increase survival probability. Direct contact transmissions through sexual or general contact such as in DFTD and CVTD ensures a higher potential for transmission. Population factors also play an important role. A dense population of available and uninfected potential hosts is ideal for the tumors given the complexity and difficulty of the overall process, hence its virulence and potency must be adequately controlled.
