# Query `87`

*Below which temperature human muscles don't work?
When one exposes theirs body parts to cold environment (especially foot and hands), they may be numb, with temporarily blocked both muscles.
What is typical body temperature below which human muscles don't work properly?
Moreover, what is the mechanism behind it?
EDIT:
Interested in case when muscles almost cease to work (e.g one is not able to grasp a cup), not just in small perturbations to strength.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0075
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) below_temperature_muscles_not_work/documentrepidrep1typ_8_1.txt
> -71.<br>ROME, L. C. (1983). The effect of long-term exposure to different temperatures on the mechanical performance<br>of frog muscle. Physiol. Zool 56, 33-40.<br>SALTIN, B., GAGGE, A. P. & STOLWIJK, J. A. J. (1968). Muscle temperature duringsubmaximal exercise in man.<br>J. appl. Physiol. 25,679-688.<br>SEGAL, S. S. & FAULKNER, J.A. (

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) below_temperature_muscles_not_work/documentrepidrep1typ_6_7.txt
> iol., Lond. 277,291-323.<br>BRESSLER, B. H. (1981). Isometric contractile properties and instantaneous stiffness of amphibian skeletal<br>muscle in the temperature range of 0 to 20°C. Can. J. Physiol. Phannacol. 59, 548-554.<br>CLARKE, R. S. J., HELLON, R. F. & LIND, A. R. (1958). The duration of sustained contractions in the human<br>forearm at different muscle temperatures. J. Physiol.,

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) shower_muscles/327461_30_0.txt
> If a person’s body temperature drops below  89.96°F (32.2°C) , a person may<br>experience:<br><br>   a decreased breathing rate <br>   a drop in blood pressure <br>   heartbeat irregularities <br>   decreased consciousness

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) below_temperature_muscles_not_work/documentrepidrep1typ_6_8.txt
> Lond. 143, 454-473.<br>EDWARDS, R. H. T., HARRIS, R. C., HULTMAN, E., KAIJSER, L., KOH, D. & NORDESJO, L.-0. (1972). Effect of<br>temperature on muscle energy metabolism and endurance during successive isometric contractions sustained

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) below_temperature_muscles_not_work/documentrepidrep1typ_4_4.txt
> probably be no more successful than previous<br>attempts to elucidate controlling reactions of biochemical pathways by measurement<br>of Arrhenius activation energies.<br>Twitch tension is generally maximal at 0-20°C, depending on species and muscle<br>type, and declines at higher temperatures. In some sense, the muscle is not as fully<br>activated by a single stimulus at temperatures above 20°C (Ranatunga, 1977). The<br>ratio of P,/P~ approaches 1.0 at low temperatures but is less than 0.5 at higher<br>temperatures (


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, below_temperature_muscles_not_work/Shivering_0.txt
> Shivering (also called shuddering) is a bodily function in response to cold and extreme fear in warm-blooded animals. When the core body temperature drops, the shivering reflex is triggered to maintain homeostasis. Skeletal muscles begin to shake in small movements, creating warmth by expending energy. Shivering can also be a response to fever, as a person may feel cold. During fever, the hypothalamic set point for temperature is raised. The increased set point causes the body temperature to rise (pyrexia), but also makes the patient feel cold until the new set point is reached. Severe chills with violent shivering are called rigors. Rigors occur because the patient's body is shivering in a physiological attempt to increase body temperature to the new set point.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, below_temperature_muscles_not_work/Shivering_1.txt
> Biological basis[edit]<br>Located in the posterior hypothalamus near the wall of the third ventricle is an area called the primary motor center for shivering. This area is normally inhibited by signals from the heat center in the anterior hypothalamic-preoptic area but is excited by cold signals from the skin and spinal cord.  Therefore, this center becomes activated when the body temperature falls even a fraction of a degree below a critical temperature level.<br>Increased muscular activity results in the generation of heat as a byproduct.  Most often, when the purpose of the muscle activity is to produce motion, the heat is wasted energy. In shivering, the heat is the main intended product and is utilized for warmth.<br>Newborn babies, infants, and young children experience a greater (net) heat loss than adults because of greater surface-area-to-volume ratio. As they cannot shiver to maintain body heat, they rely on non-shivering thermogenesis.  Children have an increased amount of brown adipose tissue (increased vascular supply, and high mitochondrial density), and, when cold-stressed, will have greater oxygen consumption and will release norepinephrine. Norepinephrine will react with lipases in brown fat to break down fat into triglycerides. Triglycerides are then metabolized to glycerol and non-esterified fatty acids. These are then further degraded in the needed heat-generating process to form CO2 and water. Chemically, in mitochondria, the proton gradient producing the proton electromotive force that is ordinarily used to synthesize ATP is instead bypassed to produce heat directly.<br>Shivering can also appear after surgery. This is known as postanesthetic shivering.<br>In humans, shivering can also be caused by mere cognition. This is known as psychogenic shivering.
