# Query `89`

*By what mechanism can hypoglycemia induce fainting?
Hypoglycemia (Low blood sugar) is said to be among the potential causes of human-faintings. I was wondering by which mechanism this happens. Google search results are abundant; there are lists of various causes and solutions, but I couldn't find a direct answer to my question.
Is it a controlled reduction of heart function to save energy? Is it an uncontrolled shock reaction (malfunction)? I'm looking for an answer along those lines.
Thanks.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0135
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0753
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0045
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) fainting_mechanism/PMC4499525_21_1.txt
> is whether changes to brain glucose levels, physiologically or pharmacologically induced, may provide people who suffer from recurrent hypoglycemia a therapeutic benefit to preserve both the sympathoadrenal response and HU.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) fainting_mechanism/PMC4499525_69_18.txt
> 993–996. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]<br>33. Cranston I, Reed LJ, Marsden PK, Amiel SA. Changes in regional brain (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake at hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetic men associated with hypoglycemia unawareness and counter-regulatory failure. Diabetes. 2001;50:2329–2336. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]<br>34. Dunn JT, Cranston I, Marsden PK, Amiel SA, Reed L

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) fainting_mechanism/PMC4499525_10_0.txt
> Go to:<br>MECHANISMS OF HU<br>Aberrant glucose counter-regulation (as a result of a failure in the reduction of insulin production and an increase in glucagon release), and HU (as the result of an attenuated increase in sympathoadrenal activity) are the components of hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure (HAAF) in diabetics patients. HAAF is most often caused by recent/recurrent iatrogenic hypoglycemia, and indeed HAAF is maintained by recurrent hypoglycemia[14,15]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) fainting_mechanism/HypoglycemiainType1a_7_1.txt
> autonomic nervous system (ANS), and production of neurogenic and neuroglycopenic symptoms to protect the brain and limit systematic effects of hypoglycemia.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) fainting_mechanism/NBK534841_14_0.txt
> Go to:<br>Pathophysiology<br>The body has inherent counter-regulatory mechanisms to prevent hypoglycemic episodes. All of these counter-regulatory mechanisms include an interplay of hormones and neural signals to regulate the release of endogenous insulin, to increase hepatic glucose output, and to alter peripheral glucose utilization. Among the counter-regulatory mechanisms, the regulation of insulin production plays a major role.  Decrease in insulin production as a response to low serum glucose isn't the body's first line of defense against hypoglycemia. For endogenous glucose production to take place, particularly hepatic


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, fainting_mechanism/Reflex_syncope_1.txt
> Signs and symptoms[edit]<br>Episodes of vasovagal syncope are typically recurrent and usually occur when the predisposed person is exposed to a specific trigger. Before losing consciousness, the individual frequently experiences early signs or symptoms such as lightheadedness, nausea, the feeling of being extremely hot or cold (accompanied by sweating), ringing in the ears, an uncomfortable feeling in the heart, fuzzy thoughts, confusion, a slight inability to speak or form words (sometimes combined with mild stuttering), weakness and visual disturbances such as lights seeming too bright, fuzzy or tunnel vision, black cloud-like spots in vision, and a feeling of nervousness can occur as well. The symptoms may become more intense over several seconds to several minutes before the loss of consciousness (if it is lost). Onset usually occurs when a person is sitting up or standing.<br>When people lose consciousness, they fall down (unless prevented from doing so) and, when in this position, effective blood flow to the brain is immediately restored, allowing the person to regain consciousness. If the person does not fall into a fully flat, supine position, and the head remains elevated above the trunk, a state similar to a seizure may result from the blood's inability to return quickly to the brain, and the neurons in the body will fire off and generally cause muscles to twitch very slightly but mostly remain very tense.<br>The autonomic nervous system's physiological state (see below) leading to loss of consciousness may persist for several minutes, so<br>If patients try to sit or stand when they wake up, they may pass out again<br>The person may be nauseated, pale, and sweaty for several minutes or hours

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 73, fainting_mechanism/Reflex_syncope_2.txt
> Causes[edit]<br>Reflex syncope occurs in response to a trigger due to dysfunction of the heart rate and blood pressure regulating mechanism. When heart rate slows or blood pressure drops, the resulting lack of blood to the brain causes fainting.<br>Vasovagal[edit]<br>Typical triggers include:<br>Prolonged standing<br>Emotional stress<br>Pain<br>The sight of blood<br>Fear of needles<br>Time varying magnetic field (i.e. transcranial magnetic stimulation)<br>Situational[edit]<br>After or during urination (micturition syncope)<br>Straining, such as to have a bowel movement<br>Coughing<br>Swallowing<br>Lifting a heavy weight<br>Carotid sinus[edit]<br>Pressing upon a certain spot in the neck. This may happen when wearing a tight collar, shaving, or turning the head.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, fainting_mechanism/Reflex_syncope_0.txt
> Reflex syncope is a brief loss of consciousness due to a neurologically induced drop in blood pressure and/or a  decrease  in  heart  rate. Before an affected person passes out, there may be sweating, a decreased ability to see, or ringing in the ears. Occasionally, the person may twitch while unconscious. Complications of reflex syncope include injury due to a fall.<br>Reflex syncope is divided into three types: vasovagal, situational, and carotid sinus. Vasovagal syncope is typically triggered by seeing blood, pain, emotional stress, or prolonged standing. Situational syncope is often triggered by urination, swallowing, or coughing. Carotid sinus syncope is due to pressure on the carotid sinus in the neck. The underlying mechanism involves the nervous system slowing the heart rate and dilating blood vessels, resulting in low blood pressure and thus not enough blood flow to the brain. Diagnosis is based on the symptoms after ruling out other possible causes.<br>Recovery from a reflex syncope episode happens without specific treatment. Prevention of episodes involves avoiding a person's triggers. Drinking sufficient fluids, salt, and exercise may also be useful. If this is insufficient for treating vasovagal syncope, medications such as midodrine or fludrocortisone may be tried. Occasionally, a cardiac pacemaker may be used as treatment. Reflex syncope affects at least 1 in 1,000 people per year. It is the most common type of syncope, making up more than 50% of all cases.
