# Query `90`

*Why do cyanide and arsenic smell like almonds and garlic, respectively?
Why do humans smell arsenic as garlic or cyanide as almonds? Do both smells activate the same receptor? Is there any reason why our brain interprets these smells the same?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0096
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) smell_like_almond/Bloodagent_74_0.txt
> Cyanide-based blood agents irritate the eyes and the [ respiratory tract<br>](/wiki/Respiratory_tract "Respiratory tract"), while arsine is<br>nonirritating.  [2]  [ Hydrogen cyanide ](/wiki/Hydrogen_cyanide "Hydrogen<br>cyanide") has a faint, bitter, almond odor that only about half of all people<br>can smell. Arsine has a very faint garlic odor detectable only at greater than<br>fatal concentrations.  [1]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) smell_like_almond/Bloodagent_76_1.txt
> (/wiki/Cyanogen_chloride<br>"Cyanogen chloride") poisoning.  [2]  There is no specific test for arsine<br>poisoning, but it may leave a garlic smell on the victim's breath.  [2]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) smell_like_almond/favorite_23_0.txt
> As a tasteless and odourless white powder, arsenic is minimally soluble in cold water but dissolves easily in hot fluids such as tea or cocoa. The symptoms of arsenic poisoning include watery diarrhoea, causing dehydration and hypovolaemic shock. If it results in hepatic and renal impairment, there may be a garlic smell to the victim’s breath.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) smell_like_almond/bloodagentshtml_42_0.txt
> Arsine (SA)<br>A colorless, toxic gas that has mild garlic odor. This odor can only be<br>detected at levels greater then those necessary to cause poisoning. This agent<br>is formed when arsenic comes into contact with an acid. It is most commonly<br>used in the semiconductor and metals refining industries.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) smell_like_almond/Bloodagent_97_1.txt
> Cacodyl cyanide ](/wiki/Cacodyl_cyanide "Cacodyl cyanide")<br> [ Cacodyl oxide ](/wiki/Cacodyl_oxide "Cacodyl oxide")<br> [ Hydrogen sulfide ](/wiki/Hydrogen_sulfide "Hydrogen sulfide")<br> [ Phosphine ](/wiki/Phosphine "Phosphine")<br> [ Carbon monoxide ](/wiki/Carbon_monoxide "Carbon monoxide")


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, smell_like_almond/Benzaldehyde_5.txt
> Uses[edit]<br>Benzaldehyde is commonly employed to confer almond flavor to foods and scented products, including e-cigarette liquids. It is sometimes used in cosmetics products.<br>In industrial settings, benzaldehyde is used chiefly as a precursor to other organic compounds, ranging from pharmaceuticals to plastic additives. The aniline dye malachite green is prepared from benzaldehyde and dimethylaniline.  Benzaldehyde is also a precursor to certain acridine dyes. Via aldol condensations, benzaldehyde is converted into derivatives of cinnamaldehyde and styrene. The synthesis of mandelic acid starts with the addition of hydrocyanic acid to benzaldehyde:<br><br>The resulting cyanohydrin is hydrolysed to mandelic acid. (The scheme above depicts only one of the two formed enantiomers).<br>Niche uses[edit]<br>Benzaldehyde is used as a bee repellent.  A small amount of benzaldehyde solution is placed on a fume board near the honeycombs. The bees then move away from the honey combs to avoid the fumes. The beekeeper can then remove the honey frames from the bee hive with less risk to both bees and beekeeper.<br>Benzaldehyde reacts with nitroethane in the presence of a catalyst to produce phenyl-2-nitropropene, a precursor to amphetamine and other chemicals.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, smell_like_almond/Benzaldehyde_0.txt
> Benzaldehyde (C6H5CHO) is an organic compound consisting of a benzene ring with a formyl substituent. It is among the simplest aromatic aldehydes and one of the most industrially useful.<br>It is a colorless liquid with a characteristic almond-like odor, and is commonly used in cherry-flavored sodas. A component of bitter almond oil, benzaldehyde  can be extracted from a number of other natural sources. Synthetic benzaldehyde is the flavoring agent in imitation almond extract, which is used to flavor cakes and other baked goods.
