# Query `92`

*How fast do we fall asleep?
When looking at the process of sleeping, most research I find point to a group of mutually inhibitory cells which form a sort of biological "flip flop." There's cells that promote awakenness and cells that promote sleeping. The process we typically think of as "falling asleep" is getting to the point where this transition can occur, but I'm interested in the transition itself.
How fast is this transition? In engineering, we'll typically measure the speed of such a transition as a 10-90 measurement: the time it takes to go from a 10% signal to a 90% signal. Is there a similar measurement made in such biological systems?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1772
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1772
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1772
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1772
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0500
map_cut_25: 0.0500
map_cut_50: 0.0500
map_cut_100: 0.0500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) fast_asleep/3926054_50_0.txt
> Google ScholarCrossrefPubMedWorldCat<br>26.	Lo CC Nunes Amaral LA Havlin S et al. . Dynamics of sleep–wake transitions during sleep. Europhys Lett. 2002; 57(5):625–631.<br>Google ScholarCrossrefWorldCat<br>27.	Arnardóttir H Thorsteinsson H Karlsson KÆ. Dynamics of sleep-wake cyclicity at night across the human lifespan. Front Neurol. 2010; 1: 156.<br>Google ScholarCrossrefPubMedWorldCat<br>28.	Lim AS Yu L Costa

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) wake_up_wrong/sleepinertiacurrenti_90_0.txt
> Studies comparing sleep inertia to pre-sleep values have typically shown a<br>return to these levels within 30 mins of awakening  36 ,  37 ,  46 ,  48 ,<br>56  and sometimes as soon as 15 mins after awakening.  45 ,  52 ,  57<br>Studies that have systematically measured alertness and performance across the<br>period after waking, however, report an asymptotic dissipation of sleep<br>inertia.  9 ,  44 ,  51  While the initial dissipation of impairment is<br>rapid, full

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) fast_asleep/3926054_31_8.txt
> sleep onset.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) fast_asleep/rsta20140093_9_0.txt
> — REM sleep latency=time until first occurrence of REM sleep,

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) fast_asleep/3926054_49_7.txt
> 2010; 5(6): e11356.<br>Google ScholarCrossrefPubMedWorldCat<br>17.	Lo CC Bartsch RP Ivanov PC. Asymmetry and basic pathways in sleep-stage transitions. Europhys Lett. 2013; 102(1): 10008.<br>Google ScholarCrossrefPubMedWorldCat<br>18.	Thacher PV Pigeon WR Perlis ML. Do patients with sleep maintenance insomnia have a problem with sleep maintenance? Behav Sleep Med. 2006; 4(4): 203–218.<br>Google ScholarCrossrefPubMedWorldCat


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 9, fast_asleep/Ventrolateral_preoptic_nucleus_2.txt
> Function[edit]<br>Sleep/wakefulness[edit]<br>Schematic representation of the Flip-Flop Switch Hypothesis<br>In the early 20th century, Constantin von Economo noted that humans who had encephalitis with lesions in the anterior hypothalamus had insomnia, and proposed a sleep-promoting influence from that area.  Animal studies in the mid-20th century in rats and cats confirmed that very large lesions in the preoptic area and basal forebrain resulted in insomnia but did not identify the cell group that was responsible.  In 1996, Sherin and colleagues reported the presence of a cell group in the VLPO that expresses cFos (a protein often found in neurons that have recently been active) during sleep, and that these neurons contain the inhibitory neurotransmitters GABA and galanin.  These same neurons were found to innervate components of the ascending arousal system, including the tuberomammillary nucleus (TMN) and other components of the lateral hypothalamus; the raphe nuclei; the locus coeruleus (LC); the pedunculopontine (PPT) and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei (LDT); and the parabrachial nucleus (PB). More recent studies using opto- or chemogenetic activation of VLPO neurons have confirmed that they promote sleep.<br>The sleep-promoting effects of the VLPO neurons is thought to be due to release of GABA and possibly galanin that suppresses firing of arousal system neurons. As the VLPO is also inhibited by neurotransmitters released by components of the arousal systems, such as acetylcholine and norepinephrine, a current theory has proposed that the VLPO and the arousal system form a "flip-flop" circuit. This term from electrical engineering denotes a circuit in which mutual inhibition means that each component of the circuit, as it turns on, turns the other off, resulting in rapid transitions from one state (wake or sleep) to the other, with minimal time in transition states.  This theory has been used to create mathematical models that explain much of the wake-sleep behavior in animals, including in pathological states and responses to drugs. Orexin neurons in the posterior lateral hypothalamus potentiate neurons in the ascending arousal system and help stabilize the brain in the waking state (and consolidated wakefulness, which builds up homeostatic sleep drive, helps stabilize the brain during later sleep). The loss of orexin neurons in the disorder narcolepsy destabilizes the wake-sleep switch, resulting in overwhelming sleep episodes during the waking day, as well as more frequent awakenings from sleep at night.<br>Circadian rhythm[edit]<br>There is a strong circadian rhythm of sleep in mammals. The “master clock” for circadian rhythms in mammals is the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The SCN has little if any projection directly to the VLPO neurons. Instead, they project strongly to the adjacent subparaventricular zone, which in turn contains inhibitory GABAergic neurons that innervate the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus.  Lesions of the dorsomedial nucleus almost completely eliminate the circadian rhythm of sleep.  GABAergic neurons in the dorsomedial nucleus innervate the VLPO, and glutamatergic neurons innervate the lateral hypothalamus, suggesting that the dorsomedial nucleus mainly promotes wakefulness during the active period (daytime for humans).

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, fast_asleep/Ventrolateral_preoptic_nucleus_0.txt
> The ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO), also known as the intermediate nucleus of the preoptic area (IPA), is a small cluster of neurons situated in the anterior hypothalamus, sitting just above and to the side of the optic chiasm in the brain of humans and other animals. The brain's sleep-promoting nuclei (e.g., the VLPO, parafacial zone, nucleus accumbens core, and lateral hypothalamic MCH neurons), together with the ascending arousal system which includes components in the brainstem, hypothalamus and basal forebrain, are the interconnected neural systems which control states of arousal, sleep, and transitions between these two states. The VLPO is active during sleep, particularly during non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM sleep), and releases inhibitory neurotransmitters, mainly GABA and galanin, which inhibit neurons of the ascending arousal system that are involved in wakefulness and arousal. The VLPO is in turn innervated by neurons from several components of the ascending arousal system. The VLPO is activated by the endogenous sleep-promoting substances adenosine and prostaglandin D2. The VLPO is inhibited during wakefulness by the arousal-inducing neurotransmitters norepinephrine and acetylcholine. The role of the VLPO in sleep and wakefulness, and its association with sleep disorders – particularly insomnia and narcolepsy – is a growing area of neuroscience research.
