# Query `93`

*Are there any documented cases of extinction of a species of fungus?
Are there any documented cases of extinction of a species of fungus? I imagine it would be hard to detect something like this.*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0096
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) extinction_fungus/plantextinction_26_0.txt
> “There is no living memory of either of these species today,” Olmstead said.<br>“Herbarium collections record our flora as it was historically and provide<br>documentation of change, and loss, over time, whether through direct human<br>impact, or indirectly through climate change and the impact it will have on<br>plants. Documenting extinction is difficult, but herbarium records can say<br>where and when a species was last observed and guide the search for surviving<br>members.”

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) extinction_fungus/1216931_66_0.txt
> Eric Allan,<br>Tania Jenkins,<br>Alexander J. F. Fergus,<br>Christiane Roscher,<br>Markus Fischer,<br>Jana Petermann,<br>Wolfgang W. Weisser,<br>Bernhard Schmid<br>Ecology<br>The Fungi: 1, 2, 3 … 5.1 million species?

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) extinction_fungus/1216931_39_0.txt
> There are compelling reasons why this type of extrapolation may perform poorly for fungi. The “known” species of fungi on which the extrapolation was based included no molecular data, thereby discounting numerous cryptic species. Furthermore, higher taxonomic ranks do not yet appear stable in the Eumycota, as major new classes and even phyla have recently been described (Jones et al. 2011, Rosling et al. 2011). It has been argued that using ratios of diversity between major taxonomic groups (i.e., fungi vs. plants) is a crude and unreliable approach to

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) extinction_fungus/1216931_3_1.txt
> ., mycorrhizae, endophytes) and decomposers (e.g., soil hyphomycetes, wood-decaying basidiomycetes), and thereby function as key drivers in the carbon cycle. Earth has entered a period of unprecedented extinction (Barnosky et al. 2011), involving species range shifts and overall reorganization of biodiversity. An accurate estimate of the diversity of fungi and improved knowledge of the forces that control the distribution of species and assembly of communities are increasingly critical in light of global climate and land-use changes, loss of biodiversity,

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) animals_evolve_size/extinction-over-time_2_16.txt
> 1870 Labrador duck – extinct from human competition for mussels and other shellfish 1900 Rocky mountain locust – extinct from habitat conversion to farmland 1936 Thylacine (Tasmanian tiger or wolf) – extinct from hunting, habitat loss, and competition with dogs 1952 Deepwater cisco fish – extinct from competition and predation by introduced fishes 1962 Hawaii chaff flower – extinct from habitat conversion to military installations 1989 Golden toad – extinct from climate change or other impacts 2004 St. Helena olive tree – extinct from logging and plantations Extinction Rates Recent studies estimate about eight million species on Earth, of


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, extinction_fungus/Prototaxites_0.txt
> Prototaxites /ˌproʊtoʊˈtæksɪtiːz/ is an extinct genus of terrestrial fossil fungi dating from the Late Silurian until the Late Devonian periods. Prototaxites formed large trunk-like structures up to 1 metre (3 ft) wide, reaching 8 metres (26 ft) in length, made up of interwoven tubes around 50 micrometres (0.0020 in) in diameter, making it by far the largest land-dwelling organism of its time.<br>The taxonomy of Prototaxites has long been the subject of debate. Currently, it is widely considered a fungus, but the debate is ongoing.  Its exact relationship with extant fungus lineages is uncertain. It was almost certainly a perennial organism that grew over multiple years. Several ecologies have been proposed, including that it was saprotrophic like many modern fungi, or that it was a lichenised autotroph.
