# Query `95`

*Are there grass or fiber eating birds?
My understanding, that may be wrong, is that cellulose/fibre has little nutritional value to many animals because it's hard to break down thus making consumption inefficient. However, Ruminating mammals, other mammals such as black bears, and many insects such as grasshoppers digest grasses.
Are there any birds with the gut flora to break down fibre? Or even some that eat grass but digest it in another way?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0345
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1250
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2181
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0172
map_cut_100: 0.0278
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) fiber_eating_birds/VM067_21_1.txt
> called cellulase which can free the glucose for absorption.<br>The reason some animals such as cattle and sheep (ruminants) can do well on<br>grass is because their stomachs have the bacterial population that produces<br>cellulase, and this structural carbohydrate can be utilized by the bacteria.<br>The bacterial cells are then used by the cow or sheep as food. It is important<br>to understand that even though crude fiber cannot be broken down for an<br>immediate energy source, a proper amount of cellulose is necessary in the diet<br>to promote normal movement of food through the bird's digestive

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) fiber_eating_birds/VM067_21_0.txt
> In the plant kingdom there is also another type of carbohydrate that is made<br>up of repeating glucose units. This is a structural carbohydrate refereed to<br>as cellulose or "crude fiber". Unlike starch, cellulose cannot furnish energy<br>to pet birds and is considered insoluble. Bacteria in the digestive tract can<br>utilize cellulose. The reason the bird is not able to utilize the cellulose is<br>because the linkage (bonding) between the glucose molecules in the long<br>cellulose chain is not able to be broken during digestion. Animals do not<br>produce the enzyme

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) fiber_eating_birds/78440_65_0.txt
> While fiber is not an indispensable nutrient for monogastric animals, it has<br>benefits such as promoting gastrointestinal motility and production of short<br>chain fatty acids through fermentation. Miscanthus x giganteus is a hybrid<br>grass used as an ornamental plant, biomass for energy production, construction<br>material, and as a cellulose source for paper production. More recently<br>Miscanthus grass (dried ground Miscanthus x giganteus) was evaluated for its<br>fiber composition and as a fiber source for poultry (broiler chicks) and pets<br>(dogs and cats

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) fiber_eating_birds/78440_75_1.txt
> _ e.g.  _,<br>carrageenan, guar gum) are used in processed foods. Seldom have the grasses or<br>forages been considered for use in foods as a fiber additive for monogastric<br>animals. This has been the domain of grazing animals and as supplemental feed<br>during confinement for ruminants and hind-gut fermenters ( _ e.g.  _, horses,<br>rabbits), or used as bedding. However, forage grasses may be a viable<br>alternative fiber source for monogastric

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) fiber_eating_birds/VM067_40_0.txt
> A wide variety of feedstuffs (seeds) are available in grains (group 1). The<br>seeds will be used mostly by the bird as an energy source. The majority of<br>energy will be from the starch. The seed hull is mostly complex insoluble<br>carbohydrate and is of very little nutritional value. In fruits and vegetables<br>(group 2), a greater concentration of vitamins is present than is found in<br>grains. This is especially true for vitamins A, E, K, and the B-complex. Even<br>though vitamin A is not present in plants, a plant


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 94, fiber_eating_birds/Hoatzin_0.txt
> The hoatzin (/hoʊˈætsɪn/ hoh-AT-sin) or hoactzin (/hoʊˈæktsɪn/ hoh-AKT-sin) (Opisthocomus hoazin) is a species of tropical bird found in swamps, riparian forests, and mangroves of the Amazon and the Orinoco basins in South America. It is the only extant species in the genus Opisthocomus which is the only extant genus in the Opisthocomidae family under the order of Opisthocomiformes. Despite being the subject of intense debate by specialists, the taxonomic position of this family is still far from clear.<br>The hoatzin is notable for its chicks having primitive claws on two of their wing digits; the species also is unique in possessing a digestive system capable of fermentation and the effective breaking-down of plant matter, a trait more commonly known from herbivorous ungulate-ruminant mammals and some primates. This bird is also the National bird of Guyana, where the local name for this bird is the Canje pheasant.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 28, fiber_eating_birds/Hoatzin_3.txt
> Behavior[edit]<br>In flight, Bolivia<br>Feeding and habits[edit]<br>The hoatzin is a folivore—it eats the leaves (and to a lesser degree, the fruits and flowers) of the plants that grow in its marshy and riverine habitat. It clambers around along the branches in its search for food. The hoatzin uses a leathery “bump” on the bottom of its crop to help balance its weight on the branches. The species was once thought to eat the leaves of only arums and mangroves, but the species is now known to consume the leaves of more than 50 botanical species. One study, undertaken in Venezuela, found that the hoatzin's diet was 82% leaves, 10% flowers, and 8% fruit. Any feeding on insects or other animal matter is purely opportunistic or accidental.<br>One of this species' many peculiarities is its unique digestive system, which contains specialized bacteria in the front part of the gut that break-down and ferment the foliar material they consume (much like cattle and other ruminants do). This process is more efficient than what has been measured in many other species of birds, with up to 70% of the plant fiber being digested. Unlike ruminants, however, which possess a rumen (a specialized, chambered stomach for bacterial fermentation), the hoatzin has an unusually large crop that is folded into two chambers, with a large, multi-chambered lower esophagus.<br>Serrations on the beak help cut leaves into smaller pieces before they are swallowed. Because they lack the teeth of mammals, hoatzins don't regurgitate their food, or chew the cud; instead, a combination of muscular pressure and abrasion by a “cornified” lining of the crop is used as an equivalent to remastication, allowing fermentation and trituration to occur at the same site. The fermented foliage produces methane which the bird expels through burping. Its stomach chamber and gizzard are much smaller than in other birds. Its crop is so large as to displace the flight muscles and keel of the sternum, much to the detriment of its flight capacity. The crop is supported by a thickened skin callus on the tip of the sternum, which helps the bird support the crop on a branch during rest and while digesting its food. A hoatzin's meal takes up to 45 hours to pass through its body.  With a body weight as low as 700 grams (1.5 lb), the adult hoatzin is the smallest known animal with foregut fermentation (the lower limit for mammals is about 3 kilograms or 6.6 pounds).<br>Because of aromatic compounds in the leaves they consume, and the bacterial fermentation required to digest them, the birds have a disagreeable, manure-like odor and are only hunted by humans for food in times of dire need; local people also call it the "stinkbird" because of it. Much of the hoatzin’s diet, including various types of Monstera, Philodendron and other aroids, contains a high concentration of calcium oxalate crystals, which, even in small amounts, can be greatly uncomfortable (and even dangerous) for humans to consume.<br>Breeding[edit]<br>Hoatzins are seasonal breeders, breeding during the rainy season, the exact timing of which varies across their range. Hoatzins are gregarious and nest in small colonies, laying two or three eggs in a stick nest in a tree hanging over water in seasonally flooded forests. The chicks are fed on regurgitated fermented food.
