# Query `97`

*Why can't our eyes smoothly transition from side to side without focusing on a moving object?
Why are we not able to slowly and smoothly look from side to side, or up and down in a single and smooth transition, given that we are able to do this if our eyes are focused on a moving object?*

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.3333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3066
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4838
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4838
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4838
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4838
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.2667
map_cut_25: 0.2667
map_cut_50: 0.2667
map_cut_100: 0.2667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_115_0.txt
> For example, when looking out of the window at a moving train, the eyes can<br>focus on a moving train for a short moment (by stabilizing it on the retina),<br>until the train moves out of the field of vision. At this point, the eye is<br>moved back to the point where it first saw the train (through a saccade).

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_68_3.txt
> causes it to turn, in almost pure rotation, with only about one<br>millimeter of translation.  [7]  Thus, the eye can be considered as undergoing<br>rotations about a single point in the centre of the eye.

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) eyes_smooth_transition/Smooth_pursuit_0.txt
> In the scientific study of vision, smooth pursuit describes a type of eye movement in which the eyes remain fixated on a moving object. It is one of two ways that visual animals can voluntarily shift gaze, the other being saccadic eye movements. Pursuit differs from the vestibulo-ocular reflex, which only occurs during movements of the head and serves to stabilize gaze on a stationary object. Most people are unable to initiate pursuit without a moving visual signal. The pursuit of targets moving with velocities of greater than 30°/s tends to require catch-up saccades. Smooth pursuit is asymmetric: most humans and primates tend to be better at horizontal than vertical smooth pursuit, as defined by their ability to pursue smoothly without making catch-up saccades. Most humans are also better at downward than upward pursuit. Pursuit is modified by ongoing visual feedback.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_93_1.txt
> get a clear view of the world, the brain must turn<br>the eyes so that the image of the object of regard falls on the fovea. Any<br>failure to make eye movements correctly can lead to serious visual<br>degradation.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) two_organs_but_not_all/Humaneye_110_0.txt
> Eyes can also follow a moving object around. This tracking is less accurate<br>than the vestibulo-ocular reflex, as it requires the brain to process incoming<br>visual information and supply [ feedback ](/wiki/Feedback "Feedback").<br>Following an object moving at constant speed is relatively easy, though the<br>eyes will often make saccades to keep up. The smooth pursuit movement can move<br>the eye at up to 100°/s in adult humans.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 2, eyes_smooth_transition/Smooth_pursuit_0.txt
> In the scientific study of vision, smooth pursuit describes a type of eye movement in which the eyes remain fixated on a moving object. It is one of two ways that visual animals can voluntarily shift gaze, the other being saccadic eye movements. Pursuit differs from the vestibulo-ocular reflex, which only occurs during movements of the head and serves to stabilize gaze on a stationary object. Most people are unable to initiate pursuit without a moving visual signal. The pursuit of targets moving with velocities of greater than 30°/s tends to require catch-up saccades. Smooth pursuit is asymmetric: most humans and primates tend to be better at horizontal than vertical smooth pursuit, as defined by their ability to pursue smoothly without making catch-up saccades. Most humans are also better at downward than upward pursuit. Pursuit is modified by ongoing visual feedback.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 9, eyes_smooth_transition/Smooth_pursuit_5.txt
> Smooth pursuit in the absence of a visual target[edit]<br>Performing smooth pursuit without a moving visual stimulus is difficult, and typically results in a series of saccades. However, pursuit without a visible target is possible under some particular conditions, that show the importance of high-level functions in smooth pursuit maintenance.<br>If you know which way a target will move, or know the target trajectory (because it is periodic for instance), you can initiate pursuit before the target motion actually starts, especially if you know exactly when the motion will start.<br>It is also possible to maintain pursuit if a target momentarily disappears, especially if the target appears to be occluded by a larger object.<br>Under conditions in which there is no visual stimulation (in total darkness), we can still perform smooth pursuit eye movements with the help of a proprioceptive motion signal (e.g. your moving finger).<br>Following stimuli from peripheral gaze[edit]<br>When a bright light appears in the periphery, the fastest it can achieve a smooth pursuit is 30°/second.  It first fixes the gaze to the peripheral light, and if not in excess of 30°/second, will follow the target equally with the movement.  At higher velocities, the eye will not move smoothly, and requires corrective saccades.  Unlike saccades, this process uses a continuous feedback system, which is based strictly on error.
