# Query `106`

## Original Question

*When was the first not-icy desert formed?For how long have deserts existed and which one would be the first to be created? I'm talking about arid, dry deserts, not the Antarctic or Arctic or any other icy deserts.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.1667
recall_5: 0.1667
recall_10: 0.1667
recall_25: 0.1667
recall_50: 0.1667
recall_100: 0.1667
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3392
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3026
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3026
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3026
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3026
map_cut_1: 0.1667
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.1667
map_cut_25: 0.1667
map_cut_50: 0.1667
map_cut_100: 0.1667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) not_icy_desert/desert5.txt
> desert - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)<br>desert - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>			<br>				Written by<br>				<br><br><br>Jeremy M.B. Smith<br>Associate Professor of Geography and Planning, University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales. Station Leader, 1996 Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition to Macquarie Island, Australian...<br><br><br><br><br>  Jeremy M.B. Smith<br><br>Fact-checked by <br><br>The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica<br>Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.<br><br><br><br><br>  The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica<br><br><br>					Last Updated: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Apr 19, 2024<br>•<br>Article History<br><br><br><br><br>	<br>				Table of Contents<br>			<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>										sand dunes <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>See all media<br><br><br><br>Category:<br><br>  Animals & Nature<br><br><br><br><br>Related Topics: <br>desertification<br>cold desert<br>alpine desert<br>polar desert<br>semidesert<br><br><br>(Show more)<br><br><br><br><br>On the Web: <br>Pressbooks at Virginia Tech - Virginia Cooperative Extension Gardener Handbook - Desert (Mar. 29, 2024)<br><br><br>(Show more)<br><br><br><br><br><br>					See all related content →<br><br><br><br>			Recent News<br><br><br>							Apr. 17, 2024, 2:28 AM ET (MSN)<br>						<br>Scientists unleash army of remote-controlled cyborg cockroaches in desert<br><br>desert,  any large, extremely dry area of land with sparse vegetation. It is one of Earth’s major types of ecosystems, supporting a community of distinctive plants and animals specially adapted to the harsh environment. For a list of selected deserts of the world, see below.Simpson DesertSimpson Desert, central Australia.(more)Desert environments are so dry that they support only extremely sparse vegetation; trees are usually absent and, under normal climatic conditions, shrubs or herbaceous plants provide only very incomplete ground cover. Extreme aridity renders some deserts virtually devoid of plants; however, this barrenness is believed to be due in part to the effects of human disturbance, such as heavy grazing of cattle, on an already stressed environment.distribution of hot and temperate desertsFigure 1: Worldwide distribution of hot and temperate deserts.(more)According to some definitions, any environment that is almost completely free of plants is considered desert, including regions too cold to support vegetation—i.e., “frigid deserts.” Other definitions use the term to apply only to hot and temperate deserts, a restriction followed in this account. Origin The desert environments of the present are, in geologic terms, relatively recent in origin. They represent the most extreme result of the progressive cooling and consequent aridification of global climates during the Cenozoic Era (65.5 million years ago to the present), which also led to the development of savannas and scrublands in the less arid regions near the tropical and temperate margins of the developing deserts. It has been suggested that many typical modern desert plant families, particularly those with an Asian centre of diversity such as the chenopod and tamarisk families, first appeared in the Miocene (23 to 5.3 million years ago), evolving in the salty, drying environment of the disappearing Tethys Sea along what is now the Mediterranean–Central Asian axis.<br><br><br>Britannica Quiz<br>Quick Quiz: Deserts<br><br> welwitschiaWelwitschia, or tumboa (Welwitschia mirabilis).(more)Deserts also probably existed much earlier, during former periods of global arid climate in the lee of mountain ranges that sheltered them from rain or in the centre of extensive continental regions. However, this would have been primarily before the evolution of angiosperms (flowering plants, the group to which most present-day plants, including those of deserts, belong). Only a few primitive plants, which may have been part of the ancient desert vegetation, occur in present-day deserts. One example is the bizarre conifer relative welwitschia in the Namib Desert of southwestern Africa. Welwitschia has only two leaves, which are leathery, straplike organs that emanate from the middle of a massive, mainly subterranean woody stem. These leaves grow perpetually from their bases and erode progressively at their ends. This desert also harbours several other plants and animals peculiarly adapted to the arid environment, suggesting that it might have a longer continuous history of arid conditions than most other deserts. Desert floras and faunas initially evolved from ancestors in moister habitats, an evolution that occurred independently on each continent. However, a significant degree of commonality exists among the plant families that dominate different desert vegetations. This is due in part to intrinsic physiologic characteristics in some widespread desert families that preadapt the plants to an arid environment; it also is a result of plant migration occurring through chance seed dispersal among desert regions. Such migration was particularly easy between northern and southern desert regions in Africa and in the Americas during intervals of drier climate that have occurred in the past two million years. This migration is reflected in close floristic similarities currently observed in these places. For example, the creosote bush (Larrea tridentata), although now widespread and common in North American hot deserts, was probably a natural immigrant from South America as recently as the end of the last Ice Age about 11,700 years ago.<br> Migration between discrete desert regions also has been relatively easier for those plants adapted to survival in saline soils because such conditions occur not only in deserts but also in coastal habitats. Coasts can therefore provide migration corridors for salt-tolerant plants, and in some cases the drifting of buoyant seeds in ocean currents can provide a transport mechanism between coasts. For example, it is thought that the saltbush or chenopod family of plants reached Australia in this way, initially colonizing coastal habitats and later spreading into the inland deserts.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) arid_area/K_C3_B6ppen_climate_classification1.txt
> Köppen climate classification - Wikipedia<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Jump to content<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Main menu<br><br><br><br><br><br>Main menu<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Navigation<br>	<br><br><br>Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Contribute<br>	<br><br><br>HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Create account<br><br>Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Personal tools<br><br><br><br><br><br> Create account Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Pages for logged out editors learn more<br><br><br><br>ContributionsTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Contents<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br><br>(Top)<br><br><br><br><br><br>1Overview<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2Group A: Tropical/megathermal climates<br><br><br><br>Toggle Group A: Tropical/megathermal climates subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>2.1Af: Tropical rainforest climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2.2Am: Tropical monsoon climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2.3Aw/As: Tropical savanna climate<br><br><br><br><br><br>2.3.1Aw: Tropical savanna climate with dry-winters<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2.3.2As: Tropical savanna climate with dry-summers<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3Group B: Arid (desert and semi-arid) climates<br><br><br><br>Toggle Group B: Arid (desert and semi-arid) climates subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>3.1BW: Arid climates<br><br><br><br><br><br>3.1.1BWh: Hot deserts<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.1.2BWk: Cold deserts<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.2BS: Semi-arid (steppe) climates<br><br><br><br><br><br>3.2.1BSh: Hot semi-arid<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.2.2BSk: Cold semi-arid<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4Group C: Temperate/mesothermal climates<br><br><br><br>Toggle Group C: Temperate/mesothermal climates subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1Cs: Mediterranean-type climates<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1.1Csa: Hot-summer Mediterranean climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1.2Csb: Warm-summer Mediterranean climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1.3Csc: Cold-summer Mediterranean climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.2Cfa: Humid subtropical climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.3Cfb: Oceanic climates<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.3.1Marine west coast climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.3.2Subtropical highland climate with uniform rainfall<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.4Cfc: Subpolar oceanic climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.5Cw: Dry-winter subtropical climates<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.5.1Cwa: Dry-winter humid subtropical climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.5.2Cwb: Dry-winter subtropical highland climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.5.3Cwc: Dry-winter cold subtropical highland climate<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5Group D: Continental/microthermal climates<br><br><br><br>Toggle Group D: Continental/microthermal climates subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>5.1Dfa/Dwa/Dsa: Hot summer humid continental climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5.2Dfb/Dwb/Dsb: Warm summer humid continental/hemiboreal climates<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5.3Dfc/Dwc/Dsc: Subarctic/boreal climates

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) not_icy_desert/cold_desert5_6.txt
> Britannica Quiz<br>Ecosystems<br><br> In contrast, a polar desert is a type of cold desert that is found at very high latitudes in the Arctic and the Antarctic. Like other cold deserts, polar deserts receive very little precipitation. They have short summers, with a mean temperature of less than 10 °C (50 °F) during the warmest month. Winters are long, with temperatures that can fall to −40 °C (−40 °F) or below. Most of the water is frozen in glaciers and ice sheets. Due to the lack of liquid water in polar

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) coal_under_sahara/Sahara3_13.txt
> Climate<br>An oasis in the Ahaggar Mountains. Oases support some life forms in extremely arid deserts.<br>The Sahara is the world's largest hot desert.[17][18] It is located in the horse latitudes under the subtropical ridge, a significant belt of semi-permanent subtropical warm-core high pressure where the air from the upper troposphere usually descends, warming and drying the lower troposphere and preventing cloud formation.<br>The permanent absence of clouds allows unhindered light and thermal radiation. The stability of the atmosphere above the desert prevents any

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) not_icy_desert/cold_desert5_3.txt
> content →<br><br>cold desert,  any large arid area of land that typically receives scant amounts of annual precipitation, which occurs mainly in the form of snow or fog. (The upper limit of mean annual precipitation is often considered to be fewer than 25 cm [9.8 inches]; however, sources vary.) Cold deserts are found typically in temperate regions at high elevations, on plateaus, or in mountainous areas; however, they also occur in polar regions. Shrubs and grasses are the main types of vegetation, and most plants and other organisms have adaptations that enable them to


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, not_icy_desert/permian_php4.txt
> Models indicate that the interior regions of this vast continent were probably dry, with great seasonal fluctuations due to the lack of a moderating effect provided by nearby bodies of water. Only portions of this interior region received rainfall throughout the year.  There is little known about the Panthalassic Ocean itself. There are indications that the climate of the Earth shifted during the Permian, with decreasing glaciation as the interiors of continents became drier. Stratigraphy Until the later 1990s, there was little consensus on the order of strata in the late Permian.  Since the upper strata of various Permian locations tend to be relatively fossil deficient, correlation using index fossils has been difficult. Correlation was attempted using fossils that were in some cases native only to the local regions where they were found and older work was based on assumptions that have changed in more recent years. <br>Older classifications relied on the Ural Mountains stratigraphy. In 1994, Jin et al. proposed a worldwide stratigraphy of the Permian Period made up of four series/epochs:  the Uralian, the Chihsian, the Guadalupian, and the Lopingian. In the early 2000s, work by Jin and others resulted in the stratigraphy currently accepted by the International Commission on Stratigraphy.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, not_icy_desert/permian_php5.txt
> Older classifications relied on the Ural Mountains stratigraphy. In 1994, Jin et al. proposed a worldwide stratigraphy of the Permian Period made up of four series/epochs:  the Uralian, the Chihsian, the Guadalupian, and the Lopingian. In the early 2000s, work by Jin and others resulted in the stratigraphy currently accepted by the International Commission on Stratigraphy.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, not_icy_desert/permian_php3.txt
> The global geography of the Permian included massive areas of land and water. By the beginning of the Permian, the motion of the Earth's crustal plates had brought much of the total land together, fused in a supercontinent known as Pangea.  Many of the continents of today in somewhat intact form met in Pangea (only Asia was broken up at the time), which stretched from the northern to the southern pole.  Most of the rest of the surface area of the Earth was occupied by a corresponding single ocean, known as Panthalassa, with a smaller sea to the east of Pangea known as Tethys. <br>Models indicate that the interior regions of this vast continent were probably dry, with great seasonal fluctuations due to the lack of a moderating effect provided by nearby bodies of water. Only portions of this interior region received rainfall throughout the year.  There is little known about the Panthalassic Ocean itself. There are indications that the climate of the Earth shifted during the Permian, with decreasing glaciation as the interiors of continents became drier. Stratigraphy Until the later 1990s, there was little consensus on the order of strata in the late Permian.  Since the upper strata of various Permian locations tend to be relatively fossil deficient, correlation using index fossils has been difficult. Correlation was attempted using fossils that were in some cases native only to the local regions where they were found and older work was based on assumptions that have changed in more recent years.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, not_icy_desert/permian_php1.txt
> The Permian Period    Online exhibits : Geologic time scale : Paleozoic Era The Permian Period The Permian period lasted from 299 to 251 million years ago and was the last period of the Paleozoic Era. The distinction between the Paleozoic and the Mesozoic is made at the end of the Permian in recognition of the largest mass extinction recorded in the history of life on Earth.  It affected many groups of organisms in many different environments, but it affected marine communities the most by far, causing the extinction of most of the marine invertebrates of the time. Some groups survived the Permian mass extinction in greatly diminished numbers, but they never again reached the ecological dominance they once had, clearing the way for another group of sea life.  On land, a relatively smaller extinction of diapsids and synapsids cleared the way for other forms to dominate, and led to what has been called the "Age of Dinosaurs." Also, the great forests of fern-like plants shifted to gymnosperms, plants with their offspring enclosed within seeds.  Modern conifers, the most familiar gymnosperms of today, first appear in the fossil record of the Permian. The Permian was a time of great changes and life on Earth was never the same again.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, not_icy_desert/permian_php2.txt
> The Permian Period    Online exhibits : Geologic time scale : Paleozoic Era The Permian Period The Permian period lasted from 299 to 251 million years ago and was the last period of the Paleozoic Era. The distinction between the Paleozoic and the Mesozoic is made at the end of the Permian in recognition of the largest mass extinction recorded in the history of life on Earth.  It affected many groups of organisms in many different environments, but it affected marine communities the most by far, causing the extinction of most of the marine invertebrates of the time. Some groups survived the Permian mass extinction in greatly diminished numbers, but they never again reached the ecological dominance they once had, clearing the way for another group of sea life.  On land, a relatively smaller extinction of diapsids and synapsids cleared the way for other forms to dominate, and led to what has been called the "Age of Dinosaurs." Also, the great forests of fern-like plants shifted to gymnosperms, plants with their offspring enclosed within seeds.  Modern conifers, the most familiar gymnosperms of today, first appear in the fossil record of the Permian. The Permian was a time of great changes and life on Earth was never the same again. <br>The global geography of the Permian included massive areas of land and water. By the beginning of the Permian, the motion of the Earth's crustal plates had brought much of the total land together, fused in a supercontinent known as Pangea.  Many of the continents of today in somewhat intact form met in Pangea (only Asia was broken up at the time), which stretched from the northern to the southern pole.  Most of the rest of the surface area of the Earth was occupied by a corresponding single ocean, known as Panthalassa, with a smaller sea to the east of Pangea known as Tethys.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 0, not_icy_desert/desert5.txt
> desert - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)<br>desert - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>			<br>				Written by<br>				<br><br><br>Jeremy M.B. Smith<br>Associate Professor of Geography and Planning, University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales. Station Leader, 1996 Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition to Macquarie Island, Australian...<br><br><br><br><br>  Jeremy M.B. Smith<br><br>Fact-checked by <br><br>The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica<br>Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.<br><br><br><br><br>  The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica<br><br><br>					Last Updated: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Apr 19, 2024<br>•<br>Article History<br><br><br><br><br>	<br>				Table of Contents<br>			<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>										sand dunes <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>See all media<br><br><br><br>Category:<br><br>  Animals & Nature<br><br><br><br><br>Related Topics: <br>desertification<br>cold desert<br>alpine desert<br>polar desert<br>semidesert<br><br><br>(Show more)<br><br><br><br><br>On the Web: <br>Pressbooks at Virginia Tech - Virginia Cooperative Extension Gardener Handbook - Desert (Mar. 29, 2024)<br><br><br>(Show more)<br><br><br><br><br><br>					See all related content →<br><br><br><br>			Recent News<br><br><br>							Apr. 17, 2024, 2:28 AM ET (MSN)<br>						<br>Scientists unleash army of remote-controlled cyborg cockroaches in desert<br><br>desert,  any large, extremely dry area of land with sparse vegetation. It is one of Earth’s major types of ecosystems, supporting a community of distinctive plants and animals specially adapted to the harsh environment. For a list of selected deserts of the world, see below.Simpson DesertSimpson Desert, central Australia.(more)Desert environments are so dry that they support only extremely sparse vegetation; trees are usually absent and, under normal climatic conditions, shrubs or herbaceous plants provide only very incomplete ground cover. Extreme aridity renders some deserts virtually devoid of plants; however, this barrenness is believed to be due in part to the effects of human disturbance, such as heavy grazing of cattle, on an already stressed environment.distribution of hot and temperate desertsFigure 1: Worldwide distribution of hot and temperate deserts.(more)According to some definitions, any environment that is almost completely free of plants is considered desert, including regions too cold to support vegetation—i.e., “frigid deserts.” Other definitions use the term to apply only to hot and temperate deserts, a restriction followed in this account. Origin The desert environments of the present are, in geologic terms, relatively recent in origin. They represent the most extreme result of the progressive cooling and consequent aridification of global climates during the Cenozoic Era (65.5 million years ago to the present), which also led to the development of savannas and scrublands in the less arid regions near the tropical and temperate margins of the developing deserts. It has been suggested that many typical modern desert plant families, particularly those with an Asian centre of diversity such as the chenopod and tamarisk families, first appeared in the Miocene (23 to 5.3 million years ago), evolving in the salty, drying environment of the disappearing Tethys Sea along what is now the Mediterranean–Central Asian axis.<br><br><br>Britannica Quiz<br>Quick Quiz: Deserts<br><br> welwitschiaWelwitschia, or tumboa (Welwitschia mirabilis).(more)Deserts also probably existed much earlier, during former periods of global arid climate in the lee of mountain ranges that sheltered them from rain or in the centre of extensive continental regions. However, this would have been primarily before the evolution of angiosperms (flowering plants, the group to which most present-day plants, including those of deserts, belong). Only a few primitive plants, which may have been part of the ancient desert vegetation, occur in present-day deserts. One example is the bizarre conifer relative welwitschia in the Namib Desert of southwestern Africa. Welwitschia has only two leaves, which are leathery, straplike organs that emanate from the middle of a massive, mainly subterranean woody stem. These leaves grow perpetually from their bases and erode progressively at their ends. This desert also harbours several other plants and animals peculiarly adapted to the arid environment, suggesting that it might have a longer continuous history of arid conditions than most other deserts. Desert floras and faunas initially evolved from ancestors in moister habitats, an evolution that occurred independently on each continent. However, a significant degree of commonality exists among the plant families that dominate different desert vegetations. This is due in part to intrinsic physiologic characteristics in some widespread desert families that preadapt the plants to an arid environment; it also is a result of plant migration occurring through chance seed dispersal among desert regions. Such migration was particularly easy between northern and southern desert regions in Africa and in the Americas during intervals of drier climate that have occurred in the past two million years. This migration is reflected in close floristic similarities currently observed in these places. For example, the creosote bush (Larrea tridentata), although now widespread and common in North American hot deserts, was probably a natural immigrant from South America as recently as the end of the last Ice Age about 11,700 years ago.<br> Migration between discrete desert regions also has been relatively easier for those plants adapted to survival in saline soils because such conditions occur not only in deserts but also in coastal habitats. Coasts can therefore provide migration corridors for salt-tolerant plants, and in some cases the drifting of buoyant seeds in ocean currents can provide a transport mechanism between coasts. For example, it is thought that the saltbush or chenopod family of plants reached Australia in this way, initially colonizing coastal habitats and later spreading into the inland deserts.
