# Query `107`

## Original Question

*Some days I can smell bad smelling exhaust 50 meters or more away from the bus stop. I think the air is usually moist those days.

Does exhaust gases linger longer if the air is moist near the ground? Is it smog I am smelling those days?

On morning 12 march it was about

Temperature: 4°C
Humidity:93%
Barometer:978 mbar
Wind:10 m/s
Looking at the data from earth.nullschool.net at a few hours before that morning I saw surface temperature of 5.1°C and 5.8°C at 1000hPa.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.3333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2000
recall_10: 0.2000
recall_25: 0.4000
recall_50: 0.4000
recall_100: 0.6000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1696
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1696
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2642
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2642
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3216
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0667
map_cut_10: 0.0667
map_cut_25: 0.1030
map_cut_50: 0.1030
map_cut_100: 0.1132
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) fog_bow/fog_tutorial3_0.txt
> Radiation Fog<br>This type of fog forms at night under clear skies with calm winds when heat absorbed by the earth’s surface during the day is radiated into space. As the earth’s surface continues to cool, provided a deep enough layer of moist air is present near the ground, the humidity will reach 100% and fog will form. Radiation fog varies in depth from 3 feet to about 1,000 feet and usually remains stationary. This type of fog can reduce visibility to near zero at times and make driving very hazardous. <br>Valley fog is a

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) exhaust_smells/where_do_bad_smells_eventually_go4.txt
> Draft saved<br>Draft discarded<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Sign up or log in<br><br><br> Sign up using Google<br>                        <br><br> Sign up using Facebook<br>                        <br><br> Sign up using Email and Password<br>                        <br><br><br><br>Submit<br><br>Post as a guest<br><br><br>Name<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Email<br>Required, but never shown<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Post as a guest<br><br><br>Name<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Email<br>Required, but never shown<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                            Post Your Answer<br>                                        <br><br>                                            Discard<br>                                        <br><br>                                                By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged atmosphereair-pollutionair or ask your own question.                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                            Featured on Meta<br>                        <br><br><br> <br><br>Upcoming initiatives on Stack Overflow and across the Stack Exchange network<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>New Focus Styles & Updated Styling for Button Groups<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Linked<br><br><br><br>4<br><br>Why does exhaust smells linger some days?<br><br><br><br><br>Related<br><br><br><br>23<br><br>Where does wind come from?<br><br><br><br>2<br><br>Where does water vapor go/what does the sun do?<br><br><br><br>19<br><br>Where is the calmest place on Earth?<br><br><br><br>4<br><br>Are atmospheric halogen oxides "supposed to be" in the atmosphere? Where do they come from?<br><br><br><br>3<br><br>Where can I find worldwide standards of manganese mining?<br><br><br><br>1<br><br>Can a Humidity Differential move PM2.5 Pollution?<br><br><br><br>1<br><br>From where can I download NCEP Vertical wind?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Hot Network Questions<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                    How could hovercraft be made an economically viable option for overland transportation?<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    Implies and centered backtick for no implies in a particular commutative diagram using xy package<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    I forgot an item on board an airplane on a regular flight. Who should I contact to get it back?<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    Quantum error correction references<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    Level shift a 0-20 V pulse to +,-10 V without deteriorating the rise time<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    Definitions straight line<br>                <br><br><br><br>                    What motives would Democrats have to vote either in favor or against vacating Mike Johnson's speakership if a motion to vacate were voted on?

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) exhaust_smells/where_do_bad_smells_eventually_go3.txt
> Reset to default<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                        Highest score (default)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            17<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>If you are smelling something, you are inhaling gases, particles, or a combination of the two.  They don't normally build up in the atmosphere because of three reasons:  transport/dilution (which you mentioned), chemistry, and deposition.  Yes there is plenty of fresh air out there but as you say, over billions of years there would be a lot of accumulation of odorous compounds if it weren't going somewhere.  Though, stinky air does get trapped near the ground sometimes during stagnation events, caused by a temperature inversion close to the surface which prevents mixing with the upper air.<br>Atmospheric chemistry usually involves the hydroxyl radical (OH) in some way.  Rapid chemical conversions of gases often depends on OH, which is cycling and replenished thanks to the abundance of oxygen and water vapor in the atmosphere.  Many gaseous pollutants will go through a series of chemical reactions with OH, other chemicals, and/or sunlight.  They are then converted to simpler chemicals that we don't really smell.  Most odorous pollutants are chemically converted quickly (e.g. hours, days).  Some pollutants do take years to convert (e.g. methane) and so accumulate in the atmosphere.  We don't smell them, though, because our ability to "smell" things is limited to organic compounds and other molecules like hydrogen sulfide and ammonia (see here). <br>Deposition of air pollutants is dominated by precipitation, whereby rain can scavenge particles and chemically react with gases.  The rain deposits the pollutants (usually in a modified form) onto the surface of the Earth.  Dry deposition also occurs, especially with "sticky" compounds like ammonia.  However, dry deposition is not nearly as efficient as wet deposition.  Though, if particles are large enough, they will settle out of the atmosphere relatively quickly and deposit on the surface.<br>I suggest you read up a little on the topic here to get you more familiar with the different factors that affect air pollutants.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Oct 27, 2018 at 21:39<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Feb 16, 2018 at 20:58<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>f.thorpe♦f.thorpe<br><br>13.6k22 gold badges4646 silver badges8989 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Methane might not be the best example considering it is odorless.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Shufflepants<br><br>Jul 30, 2018 at 15:44<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Good point!  I'm trying to think of a long-lived pollutant that has an odor... any ideas?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– f.thorpe<br>♦ <br>Jul 30, 2018 at 16:41<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@farrenthorpe Carbon monoxide?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Bollehenk<br><br>Oct 29, 2018 at 7:39<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Bollehenk Carbon Monoxide does not have an odor that we can smell.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– f.thorpe<br>♦ <br>Oct 29, 2018 at 22:26<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    Your Answer<br>                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Thanks for contributing an answer to Earth Science Stack Exchange!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.Use MathJax to format equations. MathJax reference.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) contrial_formation/contrails4_6.txt
> 's and a 737 at a high angle of attack are great examples of this effect.<br><br><br><br><br>Kevin Ash / Flickr<br><br>Aerodynamic contrails don't last long. As soon as the aerodynamically cooled air comes back up to ambient temperature, the contrails dissipate.  That's why aerodynamic contrails are so short lived.<br>Exhaust Contrails<br>Exhaust contrails are more common, and they're usually seen behind aircraft cruising in the flight levels. They form when hot, moist air exiting an engine mixes with extremely cold air - condensing the exhaust's moisture

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) contrial_formation/contrails5_2.txt
> the air is thin, its high angle of attack can produce an aerodynamic contrail if the humidity's high. If the temperature's extremely cold, which usually is the case in the high flight levels, it can create exhaust contrails, too.  You'll see the aerodynamic contrail disappear quickly, but the exhaust contrail will last considerably longer.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Become a better pilot.Subscribe to get the latest videos, articles, and quizzes that make you a smarter, safer pilot.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Sign Up


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 10, exhaust_smells/where_do_bad_smells_eventually_go2.txt
> Tags<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Users<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Where do bad smells eventually go?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>6 years, 2 months ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>5 years, 5 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        2k times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            17<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Suppose that I haven't taken a shower for a while, or haven't disposed of my trash, or something, and the room I've been in now stinks. Then, to remove the smell from the room (presumably after first throwing me out of it), you can just open a window or door, and let in the fresh air. Intuitively, the reason this doesn't leave a permanent stench outside, is because there's a lot more atmosphere outside than inside, thus diluting the smell so much it becomes unnoticeable.<br>But wait! There are billions of people on the planet, and life has existed on the planet for billions of years. And surely, most of the lifeforms that have existed here have made lots of bad smells, perhaps especially after they're dead. (And I sure don't think dogs smell good when they're alive either, for that matter.)<br>And yet, we call the air fresh, for the most part. So I suppose that, over time, the bad smells must have been destroyed or absorbed somewhere, and now I'm curious as to where. Would you have any ideas?<br><br><br><br><br>atmosphereair-pollutionair<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Feb 16, 2018 at 20:29<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>OveOve<br><br>28111 silver badge55 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>This is the best question ever asked on this site<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Gimelist<br><br>Feb 17, 2018 at 1:09<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                        1 Answer<br>                                    1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Sorted by:

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 58, exhaust_smells/Odor4.txt
> For other uses, see Odor (surname) and Odor (disambiguation).<br>"Aroma" redirects here. For other uses, see Aroma (disambiguation). "Scent" redirects here. For the film, see The Scent. "Stench" redirects here. For the gas, see Ethanethiol. "Odour" redirects here. Not to be confused with ODEUR.<br>"Smell", from Allegory of the Senses by Jan Brueghel the Elder, Museo del Prado<br>An odor (American English) or odour (Commonwealth English; see spelling differences) is caused by one or more volatilized chemical compounds that are generally found in low concentrations that humans and many animals can perceive via their sense of smell. An odor is also called a "smell" or a "scent", which can refer to either an unpleasant or a pleasant odor.<br>While "odor" and "smell" can refer to pleasant and unpleasant odors, the terms "scent", "aroma", and "fragrance" are usually reserved for pleasant-smelling odors and are frequently used in the food and cosmetic industry to describe floral scents or to refer to perfumes.<br><br><br>Physiology of smell[edit]<br>Odor control covers at a sewage treatment plant: Under these covers, grit and gravel are settled out of the wastewater.<br>Sense of smell[edit]<br>The perception of odors, or sense of smell, is mediated by the olfactory nerve. The olfactory receptor (OR) cells are neurons present in the olfactory epithelium, which is a small patch of tissue at the back of the nasal cavity. There are millions of olfactory receptor neurons that act as sensory signaling cells. Each neuron has cilia in direct contact with the air. Odorous molecules bind to receptor proteins extending from cilia and act as a chemical stimulus, initiating electric signals that travel along the olfactory nerve's axons to the brain.[1]<br>When an electrical signal reaches a threshold, the neuron fires, which sends a signal traveling along the axon to the olfactory bulb, a part of the limbic system of the brain. Interpretation of the smell begins there, relating the smell to past experiences and in relation to the substance(s) inhaled. The olfactory bulb acts as a relay station connecting the nose to the olfactory cortex in the brain. Olfactory information is further processed and forwarded to the central nervous system (CNS), which controls emotions and behavior as well as basic thought processes.<br>Odor sensation usually depends on the concentration (number of molecules) available to the olfactory receptors. A single odorant is usually recognized by many receptors. Different odorants are recognized by combinations of receptors. The patterns of neuron signals help to identify the smell. The olfactory system does not interpret a single compound, but instead the whole odorous mix. This does not correspond to the concentration or intensity of any single constituent.[2][3]<br>Most odors consist of organic compounds, although some simple compounds not containing carbon, such as hydrogen sulfide and ammonia, are also odorants. The perception of an odor effect is a two-step process. First, there is the physiological part. This is the detection of stimuli by receptors in the nose. The stimuli are recognized by the region of the human brain which handles olfaction. Because of this, an objective and analytical measure of odor is impossible. While odor feelings are personal perceptions, individual reactions are usually related. They relate to things such as gender, age, state of health, and personal history.<br><br>Smell acuity by age and sex[edit]<br>The ability to identify odor varies among people and decreases with age. Studies claim that there are sex differences in odor discrimination, and that women usually outperform men.[4] Conversely, there are some studies claiming a male advantage.[5][6][7] A 2019 meta-analysis claimed that the differences in olfaction are extremely small, but confirmed a small advantage for women.[8]<br>Pregnant women have increased smell sensitivity, sometimes resulting in abnormal taste and smell perceptions, leading to food cravings or aversions.[9] The ability to taste also decreases with age as the sense of smell tends to dominate the sense of taste. Chronic smell problems are reported in small numbers for those in their mid-twenties, with numbers increasing steadily, with overall sensitivity beginning to decline in the second decade of life, and then deteriorating appreciably as age increases, especially once over 70 years of age.[10]<br><br>Smell acuity compared to other animals[edit]<br>For most untrained individuals, the act of smelling acquires little information concerning the specific ingredients of an odor. Their smell perception primarily offers information that elicits an emotional response.[citation needed] Experienced individuals, however, such as flavorists and perfumers, can identify discrete chemicals in complex mixtures using only their sense of smell.<br>Odor perception is a primary evolutionary sense. The sense of smell can induce pleasure or subconsciously warn of danger, which may, for example, help to locate mates, find food, or detect predators. Humans have an unusually good sense of smell considering they have only 350 functional olfactory receptor genes compared to the 1,300 found in mice, for example. This is despite an apparent evolutionary decline in the sense of smell.[11][12] The human sense of smell is comparable with many animals, able to distinguish between a diverse range of odors. Studies have reported that humans can distinguish in the region of one trillion unique aromas.[13][14]<br><br>Habituation or adaptation[edit]<br>Odors that a person is used to, such as their own body odor, are less noticeable than uncommon odors. This is due to "habituation." After continuous odor exposure, the sense of smell is fatigued, but recovers if the stimulus is removed for a time.[15] Odors can change due to environmental conditions: for example, odors tend to be more distinguishable in cool dry air.[16]<br>Habituation affects the ability to distinguish odors after continuous exposure. The sensitivity and ability to discriminate odors diminishes with exposure, and the brain tends to ignore continuous stimulus and focus on differences and changes in a particular sensation. When odorants are mixed, a habitual odorant is blocked. This depends on the strength of the odorants in the mixture, which can change the perception and processing of an odor. This process helps classify similar odors as well as adjust sensitivity to differences in complex stimuli.[17]<br><br>Genetic component[edit]<br>The primary gene sequences for thousands of olfactory receptors are known for the genomes of more than a dozen organisms. They are seven-helix-turn transmembrane proteins. But there are no known structures for any olfactory receptor. There is a conserved sequence in roughly three quarters of all ORs. This is a tripodal metal-ion binding site,[18] and Suslick has proposed that the ORs are in fact metalloproteins (most likely with zinc, copper, and manganese ions) that serve as a Lewis Acid site for the binding of many odorant molecules. In 1978, Crabtree suggested that Cu(I) is "the most likely candidate for a metallo-receptor site in olfaction" of strong-smelling volatiles. These are also good metal-coordinating ligands, such as thiols.[19] In 2012, Zhuang, Matsunami, and Block confirmed the Crabtree/Suslick proposal for the specific case of a mouse OR, MOR244-3, showing that copper is essential for detection of certain thiols and other sulfur-containing compounds. Thus, by using a chemical that binds to copper in the mouse nose, so that copper wasn't available to the receptors, the authors showed that the mice couldn't detect the thiols without the copper. However, these authors also found that MOR244-3 lacks the specific metal ion binding site suggested by Suslick, instead showing a different motif in the EC2 domain.[20]<br><br>Evolutionary impact[edit]<br>Gordon Shepherd proposed that the retro-nasal route of olfaction (odorants introduced to the olfactory mucosa through the oral cavity often as food) was partially responsible for the development of human olfactory acuity. He suggested the evolutionary pressure of diversification of food sources and increased complexity of food preparation presented humans with a broader range of odorants, ultimately leading to a "richer repertoire of smells". Animals such as dogs show a greater sensitivity to odors than humans, especially in studies using short-chain compounds. Higher cognitive brain mechanisms and more olfactory brain regions enable humans to discriminate odors better than other mammals despite fewer olfactory receptor genes.[21]<br><br>Measuring techniques[edit]<br>Concentration[edit]<br>Odor concentration refers to an odor's pervasiveness. To measure odor sensation, an odor is diluted to a detection or recognition threshold. The detection threshold is the concentration of an odor in air when 50% of a population can distinguish between the odorous sample and an odor-free reference sample. The recognition odor threshold is usually a factor of two to five higher than the detection threshold.[22]<br>The measurement of odor concentration is the most widespread method to quantify odors. It is standardized in CEN EN 13725:2003.[23] The method is based on dilution of an odor sample to the odor threshold. The numerical value of the odor concentration is equal to the dilution factor that is necessary to reach the odor threshold. Its unit is the "European Odour Unit", OUE. Therefore, the odor concentration at the odor threshold is 1 OUE by definition.<br><br>Olfactometer[edit]<br>To establish odor concentration, an olfactometer is used which employs a group of human panelists. A diluted odorous mixture and an odor-free gas—n-Butanol—as a reference are presented from sniffing ports to a group of panelists who are sensitive in odor perception. To collect an odor sample, the samples are collected using specialized sample bags, which are made from an odor free material, e.g., Teflon. The most accepted technique for collecting odor samples is the lung technique, where the sample bag is placed in a sealed drum, where a vacuum is created outside the bag, which fills under expansion, and draws into itself the sample from the source. Critically, all components which touch the odor sample, must be odor free, which includes lines and fittings.<br>In comparing the odor emitted from each port, the panelists are asked to report if they can detect a difference between the ports. The gas-diluting ratio is then decreased by a factor of 1.4 or two (i.e., the concentration is increased accordingly). The panelists are asked to repeat the test. This continues until the panelists respond with certainty and correctly twice in a row. These responses are used to calculate the concentration of the odor in terms of European odor units (OUE/m3, where 1 OUE/m3≡40 ppb/v n-butanol).[24]<br>Humans can discriminate between two odorants that differ in concentration by as little as 7%.[25] A human's odor detection threshold is variable. Repeated exposure to an odorant leads to enhanced olfactory sensitivity and decreased detection thresholds for a number of different odorants.[26] It was found in a study that humans who were unable to detect the odor of androstenone developed the ability to detect it after repeated exposure.[27] People who cannot smell are said to be anosmic.<br>There are a number of issues which have to be overcome with sampling, these include:<br><br>If the source is under vacuum<br>if the source is at a high temperature<br>If the source has high humidity<br>Issues such as temperature and humidity are best overcome using either pre-dilution or dynamic dilution techniques.<br><br>Other analytical methods[edit]<br>Other analytic methods can be subdivided into the physical, the gas chromatographical, and the chemosensory method.<br>When measuring odor, there is a difference between emission and immission measurements. Emission measurement can be taken by olfactometry using an olfactometer to dilute the odor sample. Olfactometry is rarely used for immission measurement because of low odor concentrations involved. The same measuring principles are used, but the judgment of the air-assay happens without diluting the samples.<br>Odor measurement is essential for odor regulation and control.[28]<br>An odor emission often consists of a complex mixture of many odorous compounds. Analytical monitoring of individual chemical compounds present in such an odor is usually not practical. As a result, odor sensory methods, instead of instrumental methods, are normally used to measure such odor. Odor sensory methods are available to monitor odor both from source emissions and in the ambient air. These two contexts require different approaches for measuring odor. The collection of odor samples is more easily accomplished for a source emission than for odor in the ambient air.[29]<br>Field measurement with portable field olfactometers can seem more effective, but olfactometer use is not regulated in Europe, while it is popular in the U.S. and Canada, where several states set limits at the receptor sites or along the perimeter of odor-emitting plants, expressed in units of dilution-to-threshold (D/T).[30]<br><br>Intensity[edit]<br>Odor intensity is the perceived strength of odor sensation. This intensity property is used to locate the source of odors and perhaps most directly related to odor nuisance.[3]<br>The perceived strength of the odor sensation is measured in conjunction with odor concentration. This can be modeled by the Weber-Fechner law: I = a × log(c) + b,[31] where I is the perceived psychological intensity at the dilution step on the butanol scale, a is the Weber-Fechner coefficient, C is the chemical concentrations, and b is the intercept constant (0.5 by definition).[31]<br>Odor intensity can be expressed using an odor intensity scale, which is a verbal description of an odor sensation to which a numerical value is assigned.[31]<br>Odor intensity can be divided into the following categories according to intensity:<br><br>0 – no odor<br>1 – very weak (odor threshold)<br>2 – weak<br>3 – distinct<br>4 – strong<br>5 – very strong<br>6 – intolerable<br>Odor intensity is determined in a laboratory by specialists who have been trained to accurately define intensity.<br><br>Hedonic tone assessment[edit]<br>Hedonic assessment is the process of rating odors according to a scale ranging from extremely unpleasant to extremely pleasant. Intensity and hedonic tone, whilst similar, refer to different things: that is, the strength of the odor (intensity) and the pleasantness of an odor (hedonic tone). The perception of an odor may change from pleasant to unpleasant with increasing concentration, intensity, time, frequency, or previous experience with a specific odor—all factors in determining a response.[32]<br><br>FIDOL factors[edit]<br>The overall set of qualities are sometimes identified as the "FIDOL (Frequency, Intensity, Duration, Offensiveness, Location) factors".[33]<br>The character of an odor is a critical element in assessing an odor. This property is the ability to distinguish different odors and is only descriptive. First, a basic description is used—such as sweet, pungent, acrid, fragrant, warm, dry, or sour. The odor is then referenced to a source such as sewage or apple which can then be followed by a reference to a specific chemical such as acids or gasoline.[3]<br>Most commonly, a set of standard descriptors is used, which may range from "fragrant" to "sewer odor".[34] Although the method is fairly simplistic, it is important for the FIDOL factors to be understood by the person rating the smell. This method is most commonly used to define the character of an odor which can then be compared to other odors. It is common for olfactometry laboratories to report character as an additional factor post sample-analysis.<br><br>Categorization[edit]<br>Different categorizations of primary odors have been proposed, including the following, which identifies 7 primary odors:[22][35][36]<br><br>Musky – perfumes<br>Putrid – rotten eggs<br>Pungent – vinegar<br>Camphoraceous – mothballs<br>Ethereal – dry cleaning fluid<br>Floral – roses (see also floral scent)<br>Pepperminty – mint gum<br>Though the concept of primary odors is not universally accepted.[36]<br><br>Interpretive dispersion modeling[edit]<br>In many countries odor modeling is used to determine the extent of an impact from an odor source. These are a function of modeled concentration, averaging time (over what time period the model steps are run over, typically hourly), and a percentile. Percentiles refer to a statistical representation of how many hours per year the concentration C may be exceeded based on the averaging period.<br><br>Sampling from area sources[edit]<br>There are two main odor sampling techniques: direct and indirect odor sampling techniques.<br><br>Direct sampling[edit]<br>Direct refers to the placement of an enclosure on or over an emitting surface from which samples are collected, and an odor emission rate is determined.<br>The most commonly used direct methods include the flux chamber[37] and wind tunnels such as the one at the University of New South Wales (UNSW).[38] There are many other available techniques, and consideration should be given to a number of factors before selecting a suitable method.<br>A source which has implications for this method are sources, such as bark bed biofilters, that have a vertical velocity component. For such sources, consideration must be given as to the most appropriate method. A commonly used technique is to measure the odor concentration at the emitting surface, and combine this with the volumetric flow rate of air entering the biofilter to produce an emission rate.<br><br>Indirect sampling[edit]<br>Indirect sampling is often referred to as back calculation. It involves the use of a mathematical formula to predict an emission rate.<br>Many methods are used, but all make use of the same inputs which include surface roughness, upwind and downwind concentrations, stability class (or other similar factor), wind speed, and wind direction.<br><br>Health risks[edit]<br>This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Odor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>The human sense of smell is a primary factor in the sensation of comfort. Olfaction as a sensory system brings awareness of the presence of airborne chemicals. Some inhaled chemicals are volatile compounds that act as a stimulus, triggering unwanted reactions such as nose, eye, and throat irritation. Perception of odor and of irritation is unique to each person, and varies because of physical conditions or memory of past exposures to similar chemicals. A person's specific threshold, before an odor becomes a nuisance, depends also on the frequency, concentration, and duration of an odor.<br>The perception of irritation from odor sensation is hard to investigate because exposure to a volatile chemical elicits a different response based on sensory and physiological signals, and interpretation of these signals is influenced by experience, expectations, personality, or situational factors. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) may have higher concentrations in confined indoor environments, due to restricted infiltration of fresh air, as compared to the outdoor environment, leading to greater potential for toxic health exposures from a variety of chemical compounds. Health effects of odor are traced to the sensation of an odor or the odorant itself. Health effects and symptoms vary—including eye, nose, or throat irritation, cough, chest tightness, drowsiness, and mood change—all of which decrease as an odor ceases. Odors may also trigger illnesses such as asthma, depression, stress-induced illness, or hypersensitivity. The ability to perform tasks may decrease, and other social/behavioral changes may occur.<br>Occupants should expect remediation from disturbing and unexpected odors that disturb concentration, diminish productivity, evoke symptoms, and generally increase the dislike for a particular environment. It is important to set occupational exposure limits (OELs) to ensure the health and safety of workers, as well as comfort, because exposure to chemicals can elicit physiological and biochemical changes in the upper respiratory system. Standards are hard to set when exposures are not reported and can also be hard to measure. Workforce populations vary in terms of discomfort from odors because of exposure history or habituation, and they may not realize possible risks of exposure to chemicals that produce specific odors.[39][40]<br><br>Types[edit]<br>This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Odor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Some odors are sought after, such as from perfumes and flowers, some of which command high prices. Whole industries have developed around products that remove or mask unpleasant odors, such as deodorant.<br>Odor molecules transmit messages to the limbic system, the area of the brain that governs emotional responses. Some believe that these messages have the power to alter moods, evoke distant memories, raise spirits, and boost self-confidence. This belief has led to "aromatherapy", wherein fragrances are claimed to cure a wide range of psychological and physical problems. Aromatherapy claims that fragrances can positively affect sleep, stress, alertness, social interaction, and general feelings of well-being. Evidence for the effectiveness of aromatherapy is mostly anecdotal and controlled scientific studies to substantiate its claims are lacking.<br>Some people are allergic to the fragrances found in perfume, scented shampoo, scented deodorant, or similar products. Reactions, as with other chemical allergies, can range from slight headaches to anaphylactic shock, which can result in death.[citation needed]<br>Unpleasant odors play various roles in nature, often to warn of danger, though this may not be known to the subject who smells it.[41] The natural gas industry uses odor to enable consumers to identify leaks. Natural gas in its native state is colorless and almost odorless. To help users detect leaks, an odorizer with the scent of rotten eggs, tert-Butylthiol (t-butyl mercaptan), is added. Sometimes a related compound, thiophane, may be used in the mixture.<br>An odor that is viewed as unpleasant by some people or cultures can be viewed as attractive by others where it is more familiar or has a better reputation.[41] It is commonly thought that those exuding an unpleasant body odor are unattractive to others. But studies have shown that a person who is exposed to a particular unpleasant odor can be attracted to others who have been exposed to the same unpleasant odor.[41] This includes odors associated with pollution.[41]<br>What causes a substance to smell unpleasant may be different from what one perceives. For example, perspiration is often viewed as having an unpleasant odor, but it is odorless. It is bacteria in the perspiration that causes the odor.[42]<br>Unpleasant odors can arise from specific industrial processes, adversely affecting workers and even residents downwind of the source. The most common sources of industrial odor arise from sewage treatment plants, refineries, animal rendering factories, and industries processing chemicals (such as sulfur) which have odorous characteristics. Sometimes industrial odor sources are the subject of community controversy and scientific analysis.<br>Body odor is present both in animals and humans and its intensity can be influenced by many factors (behavioral patterns, survival strategies). Body odor has a strong genetic basis both in animals and humans, but it can be also strongly influenced by various diseases and psychological conditions.<br><br>Study[edit]<br>The study of odors is a growing field but is a complex and difficult one. The human olfactory system can detect many thousands of scents based on only minute airborne concentrations of a chemical. The sense of smell of many animals is even better. Some fragrant flowers give off odor plumes that move downwind and are detectable by bees more than a kilometer away.<br>The study of odors is complicated by the complex chemistry taking place at the moment of a smell sensation. For example, iron-containing metallic objects are perceived to have a distinctive odor when touched, although iron's vapor pressure is negligible. According to a 2006 study, this smell is the result of aldehydes (for example, nonanal) and ketones: 1-octen-3-one) released from the human skin on contact with ferrous ions that are formed in the sweat-mediated corrosion of iron. The same chemicals are also associated with the smell of blood, as ferrous iron in blood on skin produces the same reaction.[43]<br><br>Pheromones[edit]<br>Pheromones are odors that are used for communication, and are sometimes called "airborne hormones". A female moth may release a pheromone that can entice a male moth that is several kilometers downwind. Honeybee queens constantly release pheromones that regulate the activity of the hive. Worker bees can release such smells to call other bees into an appropriate cavity when a swarm moves into new quarters, or to "sound" an alarm when the hive is threatened.<br><br>Advanced technology[edit]<br>Most artificial or electronic nose instruments work by combining output from an array of non-specific chemical sensors to produce a fingerprint of whatever volatile chemicals in the local environment.[44] Most electronic noses need to be "trained" to recognize chemicals of interest before it can be used.[45][46] Many current electronic-nose instruments suffer from problems with reproducibility subject to varying ambient temperature and humidity. An example of this type of technology is the colorimetric sensor array, which visualizes odor through color change and creates a "picture" of it.[47][48]<br><br>Behavioral cues[edit]<br>Odor perception is a complex process involving the central nervous system and can evoke psychological and physiological responses. Because the olfactory signal terminates in or near the amygdala, odors are strongly linked to memories and can evoke emotions. The amygdala participates in the hedonic or emotional processing of olfactory stimuli.[49] Odors can disturb our concentration, diminish productivity, evoke symptoms, and in general increase a dislike for an environment. Odors can impact the liking for a person, place, food, or product as a form of conditioning.[50] Memories recalled by odors are significantly more emotional and evocative than those recalled by the same cue presented visually or auditorily.[51] Odors can become conditioned to experiential states and when later encountered have directional influences on behavior. Doing a frustrating task in a scented room decreases performance of other cognitive tasks in the presence of the same odor.[52] Nonhuman animals communicate their emotional states through changes in body odor, and human body odors are indicative of emotional state.[53]<br>Human body odors influence interpersonal relationships and are involved in adaptive behaviors, such as parental attachment in infants or partner choice in adults. "Mothers can discriminate the odor of their own child, and infants recognize and prefer the body odor of their mother over that of another woman. This maternal odor appears to guide infants toward the breast and to have a calming effect."[citation needed] Body odor is involved in the development of infant–mother attachment and is essential to a child's social and emotional development and evokes feelings of security. Reassurance created by familiar parental body odors may contribute significantly to the attachment process.[54] Human body odors can also affect mate choice. Fragrances are commonly used to raise sexual attractiveness and induce sexual arousal. Researchers found that people choose perfume that interacts well with their body odor.[55]<br>Body odor is a sensory cue critical for mate selection in humans because it is a signal of immunological health. Women prefer men with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genotypes and odor different from themselves especially during ovulation. Different MHC alleles are favorable because different allele combinations would maximize disease protection and minimize recessive mutations in offspring. Biologically females tend to select mates "who are most likely to secure offspring survival and thus increase the likelihood that her genetic contribution will be reproductively viable."[56]<br>Studies have suggested that people might be using odor cues associated with the immune system to select mates. Using a brain-imaging technique, Swedish researchers have shown that gay and straight males' brains respond in different ways to two odors that may be involved in sexual arousal, and that the gay men respond in the same way as straight women, though it could not be determined whether this was cause or effect. The study was expanded to include lesbian women; the results were consistent with previous findings that lesbian women were not as responsive to male-identified odors, while their response to female cues was similar to that of straight males.[57] According to the researchers, this research suggests a possible role for human pheromones in the biological basis of sexual orientation.[58]<br>An odor can cue recall of a distant memory. Most memories that pertain to odor come from the first decade of life, compared to verbal and visual memories which usually come from the 10th to 30th years of life.[59] Odor-evoked memories are more emotional, associated with stronger feelings of being brought back in time, and have been thought of less often as compared to memories evoked by other cues.[59]<br><br>Use in design[edit]<br>Further information: Visual merchandising § Scent<br>The sense of smell is not overlooked as a way of marketing products. The deliberate and controlled application of scent is used by designers, scientists, artists, perfumers, architects, and chefs. Some applications of scents in environments are in casinos, hotels, private clubs, and new automobiles. For example, "technicians at New York City’s Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center disperse vanilla-scented oil into the air to help patients cope with the claustrophobic effects of MRI testing. Scents are used at the Chicago Board of Trade to lower the decibel level on the trading floor."[60]<br>If ingredients are listed on a product, the term "fragrance" can be used in a general sense.<br><br>Scent preferences[edit]<br>Effect of perfume on sexual attractiveness[edit]<br>Both men and women use perfume to boost their sexual attractiveness to members of the opposite, or same, sex. When people find that a particular perfume or aftershave is perceived positively, they may be hard-pressed to change it. Olfactory communication is natural in humans. Without perfume or aftershave, humans unconsciously detect people's natural scents: in the form of pheromones. Pheromones are usually detected unconsciously, and it is believed that they have an important influence on human's social and sexual behaviour [61] There are a number of hypotheses concerning why humans wear perfume or aftershave, and whether it amplifies or reduces their natural scents.<br>In 2001, a study found that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) (a polymorphic set of genes which is important for immune-function in humans) is correlated with the ingredients found in perfume. This suggests that humans do, in fact, choose perfumes that complement or enhance their natural scents (their pheromones). This evidence offers support for the hypothesis that perfume is chosen by individuals to advertise their physical health. Research suggests that this advertisement of good health will, in fact, enhance females’ attractiveness to the opposite sex as health markers have been shown to do.[62] While strong evidence has been found to support the hypothesis that wearing perfume enhances females’ attractiveness to males, little research has been done into the effect of fragrance on males’ attractiveness to females. Considerably more research has covered the effect of males’ natural odor and females’ ratings of attractiveness. Many studies[63] found that odor predicted attractiveness when female raters were not on any form of contraceptive pill. For those who were, there was no relation between attractiveness and body odor.<br>A person's odor can increase or decrease ratings of attractiveness because the olfactory receptors in the brain are directly linked with the limbic system, the part of the brain that is thought to be most involved with emotion. This link is important, because if an individual associates positive affect (elicited by pheromones[64]), with a potential mate, their liking for, and attraction to, that potential mate will be increased.[65] Although not a typically evolutionary hypothesis, this hypothesis is one that acknowledges how humans have adapted their mating strategies to modern-day societal norms.<br><br>Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and body odor preferences[edit]<br>Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is a genotype found in vertebrates, including humans. MHC is thought to contribute to mate choice in animals and humans. In sexual selection, females opt for mates with an MHC which differs from their own, optimising genes for their offspring.[66] The "heterozygote advantage" and "Red Queen" explanations for these findings fall under the "pathogen hypothesis". Due to differences in MHC alleles' resistance to pathogens, a preference for mates with a dissimilar MHC composition has been argued to act as a mechanism to avoid infectious diseases. According to the heterozygotes-advantage hypothesis, diversity within the MHC genotype is beneficial for the immune system due to a greater range of antigens available to the host. Therefore, the hypothesis proposes that MHC heterozygotes will be superior to MHC homozygotes in fighting off pathogens. Experimental research has shown mixed findings for this idea.[67] The "Red Queen" or "rare-allele" hypothesis suggests that diversity in the MHC gene provides a moving target for pathogens, making it more difficult for them to adapt to MHC genotypes in the host.[68] Another hypothesis suggests that preferences for MHC-dissimilar mates could serve to avoid inbreeding.[69]<br>Body odor can provide MHC information. Although less is known about how odor is influenced by MHC genes, possible explanations have been that microbial flora[70] or volatile acids[71] are affected by the gene, which can be detected in body odor. Female mice and humans have both shown odor preferences for males with MHC-dissimilarity.[72] Research has shown that women prefer the scent of men with dissimilar MHC genes. In a study, women rated the scent of T-shirts, worn over two nights by men, as more pleasant when smelling those of MHC-dissimilar men.[73] It has also been found that women were reminded more of current or prior partners when smelling odors from men whose MHC was dissimilar to their own. A study of married couples found that MHC haplotypes differed between spouses more than chance would dictate.[74] Taking oral contraceptives has been found to reverse the MHC-dissimilarity odor preference.[75]<br><br>Women's scent preferences and the menstrual cycle[edit]<br>Women's preferences for body odor change with their menstrual cycles.[76] The ovulatory-shift hypothesis argues that women experience elevated immediate sexual attraction, relative to low-fertile days of the cycle, to men with characteristics that reflect good genetic quality.[77] Body odor may provide significant cues about a potential sexual partner's genetic quality, reproductive status, and health, with a woman's preferences for particular body odors becoming heightened during her most fertile days.[78] As certain body odors can reflect good genetic quality, woman are more likely to prefer these scents when they are fertile, as this is when they are most likely to produce offspring with any potential mates, with conception-risk being related to a preference for the scent of male symmetry.[76] Men also prefer the scent of women at their fertile cycle points.[79]<br>There are several scents that reflect good genetic quality that females prefer during the most fertile phase of their cycles. Women prefer the scent of symmetrical men more during the fertile phases of their menstrual cycle than during their infertile phases,[80] with estrogen positively predicting women's preferences for the scent of symmetry.[81] Women's preferences for masculine faces is greatest when their fertility is at its highest,[80] and so is the preference for attractive faces.[82] Other scents found to be preferred by women in the most fertile phase of their cycle are the scent for developmental stability,[83] and the scent for dominance.[84]<br>If women are taking a contraceptive pill the changes in mate scent preferences over the menstrual cycle are not expressed.[85] If odor plays a role in human mate choice then the contraceptive pill could disrupt disassortative mate preferences.[86] Those taking a contraceptive pill show no significant preference for the scent of either symmetrical or asymmetrical men, whereas normally cycling women prefer the scent of shirts worn by symmetrical men.[87] Males' preferences for women's scent may also change if the woman is taking oral contraceptives. When women take a contraceptive pill, this has been found to demolish the cycle attractiveness of odors that men find attractive in normally ovulating women.[88] Therefore, a contraceptive pill affects both women's preferences for scent and also affects their own scents, making their scent less attractive to males than the scent of normally cycling women.<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Aroma compound<br>Chemoreceptor<br>Flavor<br>Machine olfaction<br>Olfaction<br>Olfactometer<br>Olfactory fatigue<br>Perfume<br>Phantosmia<br>Scented water<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ de march, Claire A.; Ryu, sangEun; Sicard, Gilles; Moon, Cheil; Golebiowski, Jérôme (September 2015). "Structure–odour relationships reviewed in the postgenomic era". Flavour and Fragrance Journal. 30 (5): 342–61. doi:10.1002/ffj.3249.<br><br>^ Axel, Richard (1995). "The molecular logic of smell". Scientific American. 273 (4): 154–59. Bibcode:1995SciAm.273d.154A. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1095-154. PMID 7481719.<br><br>^ a b c Spengler, p. 492<br><br>^ Doty, Richard L.; Applebaum, Steven; Zusho, Hiroyuki; Settle, R.Gregg (1985). "Sex differences in odor identification ability: A cross-cultural analysis". Neuropsychologia. 23 (5): 667–72. doi:10.1016/0028-3932(85)90067-3. PMID 4058710. S2CID 43729693.<br><br>^ Bailey, E. H. S.; Powell, L. M. (1883). "Some Special Tests in Regard to the Delicacy of the Sense of Smell". Transactions of the Annual Meetings of the Kansas Academy of Science. 9: 100–101. doi:10.2307/3623630. ISSN 1933-0545. JSTOR 3623630.<br><br>^ AMOORE, JOHN E.; VENSTROM, DELPHA (January 1966). "Sensory Analysis of Odor Qualities in Terms of the Stereochemical Theory". Journal of Food Science. 31 (1): 118–128. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2621.1966.tb15424.x. ISSN 0022-1147.<br><br>^ VENSTROM, DELPHA; AMOORE, JOHN E. (May 1968). "Olfactory Threshold, in Relation to Age, Sex or Smoking". Journal of Food Science. 33 (3): 264–265. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2621.1968.tb01364.x. ISSN 0022-1147.<br><br>^ Sorokowski, Piotr; Karwowski, Maciej; Misiak, Michał; Marczak, Michalina Konstancja; Dziekan, Martyna; Hummel, Thomas; Sorokowska, Agnieszka (2019). "Sex Differences in Human Olfaction: A Meta-Analysis". Frontiers in Psychology. 10: 242. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00242. ISSN 1664-1078. PMC 6381007. PMID 30814965.<br><br>^ Nordin, Steven; Broman, Daniel A.; Olofsson, Jonas K.; Wulff, Marianne (2004). "A Longitudinal Descriptive Study of Self-reported Abnormal Smell and Taste Perception". Pregnant Women Chem. Senses. 29 (5): 391–402. doi:10.1093/chemse/bjh040. PMID 15201206.<br><br>^ Hoffman, H. J.; Cruickshanks, K. J.; Davis, B (2009). "Perspectives on population-based epidemiological studies of olfactory and taste impairment". Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. 1170 (1): 514–30. Bibcode:2009NYASA1170..514H. doi:10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04597.x. PMC 2760342. PMID 19686188.<br><br>^ Rouquier, S; Blancher, A; Giorgi, D (2000). "The olfactory receptor gene repertoire in primates and mouse: Evidence for reduction of the functional fraction in primates". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 97 (6). PNAS: 2870–2874. Bibcode:2000PNAS...97.2870R. doi:10.1073/pnas.040580197. PMC 16022. PMID 10706615.<br><br>^ Gilad, Y; Przeworski, M; Lancet, D (2004). "Loss of olfactory receptor genes coincides with the acquisition of full trichromatic vision in primates". PLOS Biology. 2 (1). Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig, Germany. gilad@eva.mpg.de: e5. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0020005. PMC 314465. PMID 14737185.<br><br>^ Bushdid, C.; Magnasco, M. O.; Vosshall, L. B.; Keller, A. (March 21, 2014). "Humans Can Discriminate More than 1 Trillion Olfactory Stimuli". Science. 343 (6177): 1370–72. Bibcode:2014Sci...343.1370B. doi:10.1126/science.1249168. PMC 4483192. PMID 24653035.<br><br>^ Kean, Sam (2017). "The Scent of a Molecule". Distillations. 3 (3): 5. Retrieved May 16, 2018.<br><br>^ Chaudhury, D; Manella, L; Arellanos, A; Escanilla, O; Cleland, T. A.; Linster, C (2010). "Olfactory bulb habituation to odor stimuli". Behavioral Neuroscience. 124 (4): 490–99. doi:10.1037/a0020293. PMC 2919830. PMID 20695648.<br><br>^ Salthammer, Tunga; Bahadir, Müfit (2009). "Occurrence, Dynamics and Reactions of Organic Pollutants in the Indoor Environment". CLEAN – Soil, Air, Water. 37 (6): 417–35. doi:10.1002/clen.200900015.<br><br>^ Devriese, S; Winters, W; Stegen, K; Diest, I Van; Veulemans, H; Nemery, B; Eelen, P (2000). "Generalization of acquired somatic symptoms in response to odors: a pavlovian perspective on multiple chemical sensitivity". Psychosom. Med. 62 (6): 751–59. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.320.169. doi:10.1097/00006842-200011000-00003. PMID 11138993. S2CID 12093019.<br><br>^ Wang, J.; Luthey-Schulten, Z.; Suslick, K. S. (2003). "Is the Olfactory Receptor A Metalloprotein?". Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 100 (6): 3035–39. Bibcode:2003PNAS..100.3035W. doi:10.1073/pnas.262792899. PMC 152240. PMID 12610211.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, exhaust_smells/Air_pollution2.txt
> 14See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>15References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>16Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>17External links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Air pollution<br><br><br><br>90 languages<br><br><br><br><br>Afrikaansالعربيةঅসমীয়াAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাБеларускаяभोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиCatalàČeštinaCymraegDagbanliDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGalegoગુજરાતી한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIgboBahasa IndonesiaIsiXhosaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаIkinyarwandaKiswahiliКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംमराठीBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟМонголNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийसंस्कृतम्ShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยತುಳುTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVahcuenghTiếng ViệtWalon吴语ייִדיש粵語中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Presence of dangerous substances in the atmosphere<br>"Bad air quality" and "Air quality" redirect here. For the obsolete medical theory, see Miasma theory. For the measure of how polluted the air is, see Air quality index. For the properties of air, see Qualities of air.<br><br><br>Air pollution from a coking oven<br>2016 Environmental Performance Index – darker colors indicate lower concentrations of fine particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, as well as better indoor air quality.<br>Deaths from air pollution per 100,000 inhabitants (IHME, 2019)<br>Part of a series onPollutionAir pollution from a factory<br>Air<br>Air quality index<br>Atmospheric dispersion modeling<br>Chlorofluorocarbon<br>Combustion<br>Exhaust gas<br>Haze<br>Global dimming<br>Global distillation<br>Indoor air quality<br>Ozone depletion<br>Particulates<br>Persistent organic pollutant<br>Smog<br>Soot<br>Volatile organic compound<br>Waste<br><br>Biological<br>Biological hazard<br>Genetic<br>Introduced species<br>Invasive species<br><br>Digital<br>Information<br><br>Electromagnetic<br>Light<br>Ecological<br>Overillumination<br>Radio spectrum<br><br>Natural<br>Ozone<br>Radium and radon in the environment<br>Volcanic ash<br>Wildfire<br><br>Noise<br>Transportation<br>Marine mammals and sonar<br>Noise control<br><br>Radiation<br>Actinides<br>Bioremediation<br>Depleted uranium<br>Nuclear fission<br>Nuclear fallout<br>Plutonium<br>Poisoning<br>Radioactivity<br>Uranium<br>Radioactive waste<br><br>Soil<br>Agricultural<br>Land degradation<br>Bioremediation<br>Defecation<br>Electrical resistance heating<br>Soil guideline values<br>Phytoremediation<br><br>Solid waste<br>Advertising mail<br>Biodegradable waste<br>Brown waste<br>Electronic waste<br>Foam food container<br>Food waste<br>Green waste<br>Hazardous waste<br>Industrial waste<br>Litter<br>Mining<br>Municipal solid waste<br>Nanomaterials<br>Plastic<br>Packaging waste<br>Post-consumer waste<br>Waste management<br><br>Space<br>Space debris<br><br>Thermal<br>Urban heat island<br><br>Visual<br>Air travel<br>Advertising clutter<br>Overhead power lines<br>Traffic signs<br>Vandalism<br><br>War<br>Chemical warfare<br>Herbicidal warfare<br>Agent Orange<br>Nuclear holocaust<br>Nuclear fallout<br>Nuclear famine<br>Nuclear winter<br>Scorched earth<br>Unexploded ordnance<br>War and environmental law<br><br>Water<br>Agricultural wastewater<br>Biosolids<br>Diseases<br>Eutrophication<br>Firewater<br>Freshwater<br>Groundwater<br>Hypoxia<br>Industrial wastewater<br>Marine<br>Monitoring<br>Nonpoint source<br>Nutrient<br>Ocean acidification<br>Oil spill<br>Pharmaceuticals<br>Freshwater salinization<br>Septic tanks<br>Sewage<br>Shipping<br>Sludge<br>Stagnation<br>Sulfur water<br>Surface runoff<br>Turbidity<br>Urban runoff<br>Water quality<br>Wastewater<br><br>Topics<br>History<br>Pollutants<br>Heavy metals<br>Paint<br><br>Misc<br>Area source<br>Debris<br>Dust<br>Garbology<br>Legacy<br>Midden<br>Point source<br>Waste<br><br>Lists<br>Diseases<br>Law by country<br>Most polluted cities<br>Least polluted cities by PM2.5<br>Treaties<br><br>Categories<br>By country<br><br><br> Environment portal<br> Ecology portalvte<br>Part of  a series onWeather<br>Temperate and polar seasons<br>Winter<br>Spring<br>Summer<br>Autumn<br><br>Tropical seasons<br>Dry season<br>Harmattan<br>Wet season<br><br>Storms<br>Cloud<br>Cumulonimbus cloud<br>Arcus cloud<br>Downburst<br>Microburst<br>Heat burst<br>Derecho<br>Lightning<br>Volcanic lightning<br>Thunderstorm<br>Air-mass thunderstorm<br>Thundersnow<br>Dry thunderstorm<br>Mesocyclone<br>Supercell<br>Tornado<br>Anticyclonic tornado<br>Landspout<br>Waterspout<br>Dust devil<br>Fire whirl<br>Anticyclone<br>Cyclone<br>Polar low<br>Extratropical cyclone<br>European windstorm<br>Nor'easter<br>Subtropical cyclone<br>Tropical cyclone<br>Atlantic hurricane<br>Typhoon<br>Storm surge<br>Dust storm<br>Simoom<br>Haboob<br>Monsoon<br>Amihan<br>Gale<br>Sirocco<br>Firestorm<br>Winter storm<br>Ice storm<br>Blizzard<br>Ground blizzard<br>Snow squall<br><br>Precipitation<br>Drizzle<br>Freezing<br>Graupel<br>Hail<br>Megacryometeor<br>Ice pellets<br>Diamond dust<br>Rain<br>Freezing<br>Cloudburst<br>Snow<br>Rain and snow mixed<br>Snow grains<br>Snow roller<br>Slush<br><br>Topics<br>Air pollution<br>Atmosphere<br>Chemistry<br>Convection<br>Physics<br>River<br>Climate<br>Cloud<br>Physics<br>Fog<br>Mist<br>Season<br>Cold wave<br>Heat wave<br>Jet stream<br>Meteorology<br>Severe weather<br>List<br>Extreme<br>Severe weather terminology<br>Canada<br>Japan<br>United States<br>Weather forecasting<br>Weather modification<br><br>Glossaries<br>Meteorology<br>Climate change<br>Tornado terms<br>Tropical cyclone terms<br><br> Weather portalvte<br>Air pollution is the contamination of air due to the presence of substances called pollutants in the atmosphere that are harmful to the health of humans and other living beings, or cause damage to the climate or to materials.[1] It is also the contamination of the indoor or outdoor environment either by chemical, physical, or biological agents that alters the natural features of the atmosphere.[1] There are many different types of air pollutants, such as gases (including ammonia, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxides, methane and chlorofluorocarbons), particulates (both organic and inorganic), and biological molecules. Air pollution can cause diseases, allergies, and even death to humans; it can also cause harm to other living organisms such as animals and crops, and may damage the natural environment (for example, climate change, ozone depletion or habitat degradation) or built environment (for example, acid rain).[2] Air pollution can be caused by both human activities[3] and natural phenomena.[4]<br>Air quality is closely related to the Earth's climate and ecosystems globally. Many of the contributors of air pollution are also sources of greenhouse emission i.e., burning of fossil fuel.[1]<br>Air pollution is a significant risk factor for a number of pollution-related diseases, including respiratory infections, heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), stroke, and lung cancer.[5] Growing evidence suggests that air pollution exposure may be associated with reduced IQ scores, impaired cognition,[6] increased risk for psychiatric disorders such as depression[7] and detrimental perinatal health.[8] The human health effects of poor air quality are far reaching, but principally affect the body's respiratory system and the cardiovascular system.[9][10] Individual reactions to air pollutants depend on the type of pollutant a person is exposed to,[11][12] the degree of exposure, and the individual's health status and genetics.[13]<br>Air pollution is the largest environmental risk factor for disease and premature death[5][14] and the fourth largest risk factor overall for human health.[15] Air pollution causes the premature deaths of around 7 million people worldwide each year,[5] or a global mean loss of life expectancy (LLE) of 2.9 years,[16] and there has been no significant change in the number of deaths caused by all forms of pollution since at least 2015.[14][17][18] Outdoor air pollution attributable to fossil fuel use alone causes ~3.61 million deaths annually,[19] making it one of the top contributors to human death.[5] Anthropogenic ozone causes around 470,000 premature deaths a year and fine particulate (PM2.5) pollution around another 2.1 million.[20] The scope of the air pollution crisis is large: In 2018, WHO estimated that "9 out of 10 people breathe air containing high levels of pollutants."[21] Although the health consequences are extensive, the way the problem is handled is considered largely haphazard[22][21][23] or neglected.[14]<br>The World Bank has estimated that welfare losses (premature deaths) and productivity losses (lost labour) caused by air pollution cost the world economy $5 trillion per year.[24][25][26] The costs of air pollution are generally an externality to the contemporary economic system and most human activity, although they are sometimes recovered through monitoring, legislation, and regulation.[27][28]<br>Many different technologies and strategies are available for reducing air pollution.[29] Although a majority of countries have air pollution laws, according to UNEP, 43 percent of countries lack a legal definition of air pollution, 31 percent lack outdoor air quality standards, 49 percent restrict their definition to outdoor pollution only, and just 31 percent have laws for tackling pollution originating from outside their borders.[30] National air quality laws have often been highly effective, notably the 1956 Clean Air Act in Britain and the US Clean Air Act, introduced in 1963.[31][32] Some of these efforts have been successful at the international level, such as the Montreal Protocol,[33] which reduced the release of harmful ozone depleting chemicals, and the 1985 Helsinki Protocol,[34] which reduced sulfur emissions,[35] while others, such as international action on climate change,[36][37][38] have been less successful.<br><br><br>Sources of air pollution[edit]<br>There are many different sources of air pollution. Some air pollutants (such as nitrogen oxides) originate mainly from human activities,[39] while some (notably radon gas) come mostly from natural sources.[40] However, many air pollutants (including dust and sulfur dioxide) come from a mixture of natural and human sources.[41]<br><br>Anthropogenic (human-made) sources[edit]<br>Demolition of the cooling towers of a power station, Athlone, Cape Town, South Africa, 2010<br>Controlled burning of a field outside of Statesboro, Georgia, US, in preparation for spring planting<br>Smoking of fish over an open fire in Ghana, 2018<br>Burning of joss paper in a temple<br>Stationary sources include:<br>fossil-fuel power plants and biomass power plants both have smoke stacks (see for example environmental impact of the coal industry)[42]<br>Oil and gas sites that have methane leaks[43][44][45][46]<br>burning of traditional biomass such as wood, crop waste and dung. (In developing and poor countries,[47] traditional biomass burning is the major source of air pollutants.[48][49] It is also the main source of particulate pollution in many developed areas including the UK & New South Wales.[50][51] Its pollutants include PAHs.[52])<br>manufacturing facilities (factories)[53]<br>a 2014 study found that in China equipment-, machinery-, and devices-manufacturing and construction sectors contributed more than 50% of air pollutant emissions.[54][better source needed] This high emission is due to high emission intensity and high emission factors in its industrial structure.[55]<br>construction[56][57]<br>waste incineration (incinerators as well as open and uncontrolled fires of mismanaged waste, making up about a fourth of municipal solid terrestrial waste)[58][59]<br>furnaces and other types of fuel-burning heating devices[60]<br>Mobile sources include motor vehicles, Trains (particularly diesel locomotives and DMUs), marine vessels and aircraft[61] as well as rockets and re-entry of components and debris.[62] The air pollution externality of cars enters the air from the exhaust gas and car tires (including microplastics[63]). Road vehicles make a significant amount of all air pollution (typically, for example, around a third to a half of all nitrogen dioxide emissions)[64][65][66] and are a major driver of climate change.[67][68]<br>Agriculture and forest management strategies using controlled burns. Practices like slash-and-burn in forests like the Amazon cause large air pollution with the deforestation.[69] Controlled or prescribed burning is a practice used in forest management, agriculture, prairie restoration, and greenhouse gas reduction.[70] Foresters can use controlled fire as a tool because fire is a natural feature of both forest and grassland ecology.[71][72] Controlled burning encourages the sprouting of some desirable forest trees, resulting in a forest renewal.[73]<br>There are also sources from processes other than combustion:<br><br>Fumes from paint, hair spray, varnish, aerosol sprays and other solvents. These can be substantial; emissions from these sources was estimated to account for almost half of pollution from volatile organic compounds in the Los Angeles basin in the 2010s.[74]<br>Waste deposition in landfills produces methane[75] and open burning of waste releases harmful substances.[76]<br>Nuclear weapons, toxic gases, germ warfare, and rocketry are examples of military resources.[77]<br>Agricultural emissions and emissions from meat production or livestock contribute substantially to air pollution[78][79]<br>Fertilized farmland may be a major source of nitrogen oxides.[80]<br><br>Mean acidifying emissions (air pollution) of different foods per 100g of protein[81]<br><br><br>Food Types<br><br>Acidifying Emissions (g SO2eq per 100g protein)<br><br><br>Beef<br><br>343.6<br><br><br>Cheese<br><br>165.5<br><br><br>Pork<br><br>142.7<br><br><br>Lamb and mutton<br><br>139.0<br><br><br>Farmed crustaceans<br><br>133.1<br><br><br>Poultry<br><br>102.4<br><br><br>Farmed fish<br><br>65.9<br><br><br>Eggs<br><br>53.7<br><br><br>Groundnuts<br><br>22.6<br><br><br>Peas<br><br>8.5<br><br><br>Tofu<br><br>6.7<br><br><br>Natural sources[edit]<br>Dust storm approaching Stratford, Texas, in 1935<br>Dust from natural sources, usually large areas of land with little vegetation or no vegetation<br>Methane, emitted by the digestion of food by animals, for example cattle<br>Radon gas from radioactive decay within the Earth's crust. Radon is a colorless, odorless, naturally occurring, radioactive noble gas that is formed from the decay of radium. It is considered to be a health hazard. Radon gas from natural sources can accumulate in buildings, especially in confined areas such as the basement and it is the second most frequent cause of lung cancer, after cigarette smoking.<br>Smoke and carbon monoxide from wildfires. During periods of active wildfires, smoke from uncontrolled biomass combustion can make up almost 75% of all air pollution by concentration.[82]<br>Vegetation, in some regions, emits environmentally significant amounts of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) on warmer days. These VOCs react with primary anthropogenic pollutants – specifically, NOx, SO2, and anthropogenic organic carbon compounds – to produce a seasonal haze of secondary pollutants.[83] Black gum, poplar, oak and willow are some examples of vegetation that can produce abundant VOCs. The VOC production from these species result in ozone levels up to eight times higher than the low-impact tree species.[84]<br>Volcanic activity, which produces sulfur, chlorine, and ash particulates[85]<br>Emission factors[edit]<br>Main article: AP 42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors<br>Beijing air in 2005 after rain (left) and a smoggy day (right)<br>Air pollutant emission factors are reported representative values that aim to link the quantity of a pollutant released into the ambient air to an activity connected with that pollutant's release.[2][86][87][88] The weight of the pollutant divided by a unit weight, volume, distance, or time of the activity generating the pollutant is how these factors are commonly stated (e.g., kilograms of particulate emitted per tonne of coal burned). These criteria make estimating emissions from diverse sources of pollution easier. Most of the time, these components are just averages of all available data of acceptable quality, and they are thought to be typical of long-term averages.<br>The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants identified pesticides and other persistent organic pollutants of concern. These include dioxins and furans which are unintentionally created by combustion of organics, like open burning of plastics, and are endocrine disruptors and mutagens.<br><br>E-waste processing in Agbogbloshie, Ghana, using open-burning of electronics to access valuable metals like copper. Open burning of plastics is common in many parts of the world without the capacity for processing. Especially without proper protections, heavy metals and other contaminates can seep into the soil, and create water pollution and air pollution.<br>The United States Environmental Protection Agency has published a compilation of air pollutant emission factors for a wide range of industrial sources.[89] The United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, and many other countries have published similar compilations, as well as the European Environment Agency.[90][91][92][93]<br><br>Pollutants[edit]<br>Main articles: Pollutant and Greenhouse gas emissions<br>Schematic drawing, causes and effects of air pollution: (1) greenhouse effect, (2) particulate contamination, (3) increased UV radiation, (4) acid rain, (5) increased ground-level ozone concentration, (6) increased levels of nitrogen oxides<br>An air pollutant is a material in the air that can have many effects on humans and the ecosystem.[94] The substance can be solid particles, liquid droplets, or gases, and often takes the form of an aerosol (solid particles or liquid droplets dispersed and carried by a gas).[95] A pollutant can be of natural origin or man-made. Pollutants are classified as primary or secondary. Primary pollutants are usually produced by processes such as ash from a volcanic eruption.<br>Other examples include carbon monoxide gas from motor vehicle exhausts or sulfur dioxide released from factories. Secondary pollutants are not emitted directly. Rather, they form in the air when primary pollutants react or interact. Ground level ozone is a prominent example of a secondary pollutant. Some pollutants may be both primary and secondary: they are both emitted directly and formed from other primary pollutants.<br><br>Primary pollutants[edit]<br>This section is in list format but may read better as prose. You can help by converting this section, if appropriate. Editing help is available. (April 2023)<br>Pollutants emitted into the atmosphere by human activity include:<br><br>Ammonia: Emitted mainly by agricultural waste. Ammonia is a compound with the formula NH3. It is normally encountered as a gas with a characteristic pungent odor. Ammonia contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to foodstuffs and fertilizers. Ammonia, either directly or indirectly, is also a building block for the synthesis of many pharmaceuticals. Although in wide use, ammonia is both caustic and hazardous.[96] In the atmosphere, ammonia reacts with oxides of nitrogen and sulfur to form secondary particles.[97]<br>Carbon dioxide (CO2): Carbon dioxide is a natural component of the atmosphere, essential for plant life and given off by the human respiratory system.[98] It is potentially lethal at very high concentrations (typically 100 times "normal" atmospheric levels).[99][100] Although the World Health Organization recognizes CO2 as a climate pollutant, it does not include the gas in its Air Quality Guidelines or set recommended targets for it.[101] Because of its role as a greenhouse gas, CO2 has been described as "the worst climate pollutant".[102] Statements such as this refer to its long-term atmospheric effects rather than shorter-term effects on such things as human health, food crops, and buildings. This question of terminology has practical consequences, for example, in determining whether the U.S. Clean Air Act (which is designed to improve air quality) is deemed to regulate CO2 emissions.[103] That issue was resolved in the United States by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which specifically amended the Clean Air Act "to define the carbon dioxide produced by the burning of fossil fuels as an 'air pollutant.'"[104] CO2 currently forms about 410 parts per million (ppm) of Earth's atmosphere, compared to about 280 ppm in pre-industrial times,[105] and billions of metric tons of CO2 are emitted annually by burning of fossil fuels.[106] CO2 increase in Earth's atmosphere has been accelerating.[107] CO2 is an asphyxiant gas and not classified as toxic or harmful in general.[108] Workplace exposure limits exist in places like UK (5,000 ppm for long-term exposure and 15,000 ppm for short-term exposure).[100] Natural disasters like the limnic eruption at Lake Nyos can result in a sudden release of huge amount of CO2 as well.[109]<br>Carbon monoxide (CO): CO is a colorless, odorless, toxic gas.[110] It is a product of combustion of fuel such as natural gas, coal or wood. Vehicular exhaust contributes to the majority of carbon monoxide let into the atmosphere. It creates a smog type formation in the air that has been linked to many lung diseases and disruptions to the natural environment and animals.<br>Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs): Emitted from goods that are now prohibited from use; harmful to the ozone layer. These are gases emitted by air conditioners, freezers, aerosol sprays, and other similar devices. CFCs reach the stratosphere after being released into the atmosphere.[111] They interact with other gases here, causing harm to the ozone layer. UV rays are able to reach the Earth's surface as a result of this. This can result in skin cancer, eye problems, and even plant damage.[112]<br>Nitrogen oxides (NOx): Nitrogen oxides, particularly nitrogen dioxide, are expelled from high temperature combustion, and are also produced during thunderstorms by electric discharge. They can be seen as a brown haze dome above or a plume downwind of cities. Nitrogen dioxide is a chemical compound with the formula NO2. It is one of several nitrogen oxides. One of the most prominent air pollutants, this reddish-brown toxic gas has a characteristic sharp, biting odor.<br>Odors: Such as from garbage, sewage, and industrial processes.<br>Particulate matter/particles (PM), also known as particulates, atmospheric particulate matter (APM), or fine particles, are microscopic solid or liquid particles suspended in a gas.[113] Aerosol is a mixture of particles and gas. Volcanoes, dust storms, forest and grassland fires, living plants, and sea spray are all sources of particles. Aerosols are produced by human activities such as the combustion of fossil fuels in automobiles, power plants, and numerous industrial processes.[114] Averaged worldwide, anthropogenic aerosols – those made by human activities – currently account for approximately 10% of the atmosphere. Increased levels of fine particles in the air are linked to health hazards such as heart disease,[115] altered lung function and lung cancer. Particulates are related to respiratory infections and can be particularly harmful to those with conditions like asthma.[116]<br>Persistent organic pollutants, which can attach to particulates. Persistent organic pollutants are organic compounds that are resistant to environmental degradation due to chemical, biological, or photolytic processes (POPs). As a result, they've been discovered to survive in the environment, be capable of long-range transmission, bioaccumulate in human and animal tissue, biomagnify in food chains, and pose a major threat to human health and the ecosystem.[117]<br>Persistent free radicals connected to airborne fine particles are linked to cardiopulmonary disease.[118][119]<br>Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs): a group of aromatic compounds formed from the incomplete combustion of organic compounds including coal and oil and tobacco.[120]<br>Radioactive pollutants: Produced by nuclear explosions, nuclear events, war explosives, and natural processes such as the radioactive decay of radon.<br>Sulfur oxides (SOx): particularly sulfur dioxide, a chemical compound with the formula SO2. SO2 is produced by volcanoes and in various industrial processes. Coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds, and their combustion generates sulfur dioxide. Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a catalyst such as NO2, forms H2SO4, and thus acid rain is formed. This is one of the causes for concern over the environmental impact of the use of these fuels as power sources.<br>Toxic metals, such as lead and mercury, especially their compounds.<br>Volatile organic compounds (VOC): VOCs are both indoor and outdoor air pollutants.[121] They are categorized as either methane (CH4) or non-methane (NMVOCs). Methane is an extremely efficient greenhouse gas which contributes to enhanced global warming. Other hydrocarbon VOCs are also significant greenhouse gases because of their role in creating ozone and prolonging the life of methane in the atmosphere. This effect varies depending on local air quality. The aromatic NMVOCs benzene, toluene and xylene are suspected carcinogens and may lead to leukemia with prolonged exposure. 1,3-butadiene is another dangerous compound often associated with industrial use.<br>Secondary pollutants[edit]<br>Secondary pollutants include:<br><br>Ground level ozone (O3): Ozone is created when NOx and VOCs mix. It is a significant part of the troposphere.[122] It's also an important part of the ozone layer, which can be found in different sections of the stratosphere. Photochemical and chemical reactions involving it fuel many of the chemical activities that occur in the atmosphere during the day and night. It is a pollutant and a component of smog that is produced in large quantities as a result of human activities (mostly the combustion of fossil fuels).[123]<br>Peroxyacetyl nitrate (C2H3NO5): similarly formed from NOx and VOCs.<br>Photochemical smog: particles are formed from gaseous primary contaminants and chemicals.[124] Smog is a type of pollution that occurs in the atmosphere. Smog is caused by a huge volume of coal being burned in a certain region, resulting in a mixture of smoke and sulfur dioxide.[125] Modern smog is usually caused by automotive and industrial emissions, which are acted on in the atmosphere by UV light from the sun to produce secondary pollutants, which then combine with the primary emissions to generate photochemical smog.<br>Other pollutants[edit]<br>There are many other chemicals classed as hazardous air pollutants. Some of these are regulated in the USA under the Clean Air Act and in Europe under numerous directives (including the Air "Framework" Directive, 96/62/EC, on ambient air quality assessment and management, Directive 98/24/EC, on risks related to chemical agents at work, and Directive 2004/107/EC covering heavy metals and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ambient air).[126][127]<br><br><br><br>To display all pages, subcategories and images click on the "►":<br><br><br>  Hazardous air pollutants‎ (4 C, 68 P)<br><br><br><br><br>Before flue-gas desulfurization was installed, the emissions from this power plant in New Mexico contained excessive amounts of sulfur dioxide.<br><br><br><br>Thermal oxidisers are air pollution abatement options for hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and odorous emissions.<br><br><br><br>This video provides an overview of a NASA study on the human fingerprint on global air quality.<br><br><br>Exposure[edit]

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 2, exhaust_smells/where_do_bad_smells_eventually_go3.txt
> Reset to default<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                        Highest score (default)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            17<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>If you are smelling something, you are inhaling gases, particles, or a combination of the two.  They don't normally build up in the atmosphere because of three reasons:  transport/dilution (which you mentioned), chemistry, and deposition.  Yes there is plenty of fresh air out there but as you say, over billions of years there would be a lot of accumulation of odorous compounds if it weren't going somewhere.  Though, stinky air does get trapped near the ground sometimes during stagnation events, caused by a temperature inversion close to the surface which prevents mixing with the upper air.<br>Atmospheric chemistry usually involves the hydroxyl radical (OH) in some way.  Rapid chemical conversions of gases often depends on OH, which is cycling and replenished thanks to the abundance of oxygen and water vapor in the atmosphere.  Many gaseous pollutants will go through a series of chemical reactions with OH, other chemicals, and/or sunlight.  They are then converted to simpler chemicals that we don't really smell.  Most odorous pollutants are chemically converted quickly (e.g. hours, days).  Some pollutants do take years to convert (e.g. methane) and so accumulate in the atmosphere.  We don't smell them, though, because our ability to "smell" things is limited to organic compounds and other molecules like hydrogen sulfide and ammonia (see here). <br>Deposition of air pollutants is dominated by precipitation, whereby rain can scavenge particles and chemically react with gases.  The rain deposits the pollutants (usually in a modified form) onto the surface of the Earth.  Dry deposition also occurs, especially with "sticky" compounds like ammonia.  However, dry deposition is not nearly as efficient as wet deposition.  Though, if particles are large enough, they will settle out of the atmosphere relatively quickly and deposit on the surface.<br>I suggest you read up a little on the topic here to get you more familiar with the different factors that affect air pollutants.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Oct 27, 2018 at 21:39<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Feb 16, 2018 at 20:58<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>f.thorpe♦f.thorpe<br><br>13.6k22 gold badges4646 silver badges8989 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Methane might not be the best example considering it is odorless.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Shufflepants<br><br>Jul 30, 2018 at 15:44<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Good point!  I'm trying to think of a long-lived pollutant that has an odor... any ideas?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– f.thorpe<br>♦ <br>Jul 30, 2018 at 16:41<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@farrenthorpe Carbon monoxide?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Bollehenk<br><br>Oct 29, 2018 at 7:39<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Bollehenk Carbon Monoxide does not have an odor that we can smell.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– f.thorpe<br>♦ <br>Oct 29, 2018 at 22:26<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    Your Answer<br>                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Thanks for contributing an answer to Earth Science Stack Exchange!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.Use MathJax to format equations. MathJax reference.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, exhaust_smells/Air_pollution3.txt
> The risk of air pollution is determined by the pollutant's hazard and the amount of exposure to that pollutant. Air pollution exposure can be measured for a person, a group, such as a neighborhood or a country's children, or an entire population. For example, one would want to determine a geographic area's exposure to a dangerous air pollution, taking into account the various microenvironments and age groups. This can be calculated[128] as an inhalation exposure. This would account for daily exposure in various settings, e.g. different indoor micro-environments and outdoor locations. The exposure needs to include different ages and other demographic groups, especially infants, children, pregnant women, and other sensitive subpopulations.[128]<br>For each specific time that the subgroup is in the setting and engaged in particular activities, the exposure to an air pollutant must integrate the concentrations of the air pollutant with regard to the time spent in each setting and the respective inhalation rates for each subgroup, playing, cooking, reading, working, spending time in traffic, etc. A little child's inhaling rate, for example, will be lower than that of an adult. A young person engaging in strenuous exercise will have a faster rate of breathing than a child engaged in sedentary activity. The daily exposure must therefore include the amount of time spent in each micro-environmental setting as well as the kind of activities performed there. The air pollutant concentration in each microactivity/microenvironmental setting is summed to indicate the exposure.[128]<br>For some pollutants such as black carbon, traffic related exposures may dominate total exposure despite short exposure times since high concentrations coincide with proximity to major roads or participation in (motorized) traffic.[129] A large portion of total daily exposure occurs as short peaks of high concentrations, but it remains unclear how to define peaks and determine their frequency and health impact.[130]<br>In 2021, the WHO halved its recommended guideline limit for tiny particles from burning fossil fuels. The new limit for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) is 75% lower.[131] Growing evidence that air pollution—even when experienced at very low levels—hurts human health, led the WHO to revise its guideline (from 10 μg/m3 to 5 μg/m3) for what it considers a safe level of exposure of particulate pollution, bringing most of the world—97.3 percent of the global population—into the unsafe zone.[132]<br><br>Indoor air quality[edit]<br>Main articles: Indoor air quality and Indoor air pollution in developing countries<br>The share of total deaths from indoor air pollution, 2017<br>Air quality monitoring, New Delhi, India<br>A lack of ventilation indoors concentrates air pollution where people often spend the majority of their time. Radon (Rn) gas, a carcinogen, is exuded from the Earth in certain locations and trapped inside houses. Building materials including carpeting and plywood emit formaldehyde (H-CHO) gas. Paint and solvents give off volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as they dry. Lead paint can degenerate into dust and be inhaled.[133][134]<br>Intentional air pollution is introduced with the use of air fresheners, incense, and other scented items. Controlled wood fires in cook stoves and fireplaces can add significant amounts of harmful smoke particulates into the air, inside and out.[133][134] Indoor pollution fatalities may be caused by using pesticides and other chemical sprays indoors without proper ventilation. Also the kitchen in a modern produce harmful particles and gases, with equipment like toasters being one of the worst sources.[135]<br>Carbon monoxide poisoning and fatalities are often caused by faulty vents and chimneys, or by the burning of charcoal indoors or in a confined space, such as a tent.[136] Chronic carbon monoxide poisoning can result even from poorly-adjusted pilot lights. Traps are built into all domestic plumbing to keep sewer gas and hydrogen sulfide, out of interiors. Clothing emits tetrachloroethylene, or other dry cleaning fluids, for days after dry cleaning.<br>Though its use has now been banned in many countries, the extensive use of asbestos in industrial and domestic environments in the past has left a potentially very dangerous material in many localities. Asbestosis is a chronic inflammatory medical condition affecting the tissue of the lungs. It occurs after long-term, heavy exposure to asbestos from asbestos-containing materials in structures. Those with asbestosis have severe dyspnea (shortness of breath) and are at an increased risk regarding several different types of lung cancer. As clear explanations are not always stressed in non-technical literature, care should be taken to distinguish between several forms of relevant diseases. According to the World Health Organization,[137] these may be defined as asbestosis, lung cancer, and peritoneal mesothelioma (generally a very rare form of cancer, when more widespread it is almost always associated with prolonged exposure to asbestos).<br>Biological sources of air pollution are also found indoors, as gases and airborne particulates. Pets produce dander, people produce dust from minute skin flakes and decomposed hair, dust mites in bedding, carpeting and furniture produce enzymes and micrometre-sized fecal droppings, inhabitants emit methane, mold forms on walls and generates mycotoxins and spores, air conditioning systems can incubate Legionnaires' disease and mold, and houseplants, soil and surrounding gardens can produce pollen, dust, and mold. Indoors, the lack of air circulation allows these airborne pollutants to accumulate more than they would otherwise occur in nature.<br><br>Health effects[edit]<br>Even at levels lower than those considered safe by United States regulators, exposure to three components of air pollution, fine particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and ozone, correlates with cardiac and respiratory illness.[138] In 2020, pollution (including air pollution) was a contributing factor to one in eight deaths in Europe, and was a significant risk factor for pollution-related diseases including heart disease, stroke and lung cancer.[139] The health effects caused by air pollution may include difficulty in breathing, wheezing, coughing, asthma[140] and worsening of existing respiratory and cardiac conditions. These effects can result in increased medication use, increased doctor or emergency department visits, more hospital admissions and premature death.[128]<br>The human health effects of poor air quality are far reaching, but principally affect the body's respiratory system and the cardiovascular system. Individual reactions to air pollutants depend on the type of pollutant a person is exposed to, the degree of exposure, and the individual's health status and genetics.[128] The most common sources of air pollution include particulates, ozone, nitrogen dioxide, and sulfur dioxide. Children aged less than five years who live in developing countries are the most vulnerable population in terms of total deaths attributable to indoor and outdoor air pollution.[141] Under the Clean Air Act, U.S. EPA sets limits on certain air pollutants, including setting limits on how much can be in the air anywhere in the United States.[142] New research demonstrates that the biological and health outcomes of mixed exposures (Example PM + Ozone) could be significantly greater than individual exposures.[143]<br>Air pollution has both acute and chronic effects on human health, affecting a number of different systems and organs. It ranges from minor upper respiratory irritation to chronic respiratory and heart disease, lung cancer, acute respiratory infections in children and chronic bronchitis in adults, aggravating pre-existing heart and lung disease, or asthmatic attacks. Short and long term exposures have been linked with premature mortality and reduced life expectancy.[144] Diseases that develop from persistent exposure to air pollution are environmental health diseases, which develop when a health environment is not maintained.[145]<br><br>Mortality[edit]<br><br>Deaths caused by accidents and air pollution from fossil fuel use in power plants exceed those caused by production of renewable energy.[146]The share of total deaths from outdoor air pollution, by nation<br>The World Health Organization estimated in 2014 that every year air pollution causes the premature death of some 7 million people worldwide.[5] Studies published in March 2019 indicated that the number may be around 8.8 million.[147] A 2022 review concluded that air pollution was responsible for 6.67 (5.90–7.49) million premature deaths in 2019. It concluded that since 2015 little real progress against (superordinate) pollution, which remained at ~9 million earlier deaths, can be identified.[148][14] Causes of deaths include strokes, heart disease, COPD, lung cancer, and lung infections.[5]<br>Urban outdoor air pollution is estimated to cause 1.3 million deaths worldwide per year.[149] Children are particularly at risk due to the immaturity of their respiratory organ systems.[150] In 2015, outdoor air pollution, mostly by PM2.5, was estimated to lead to 3.3 (95% CI 1.61–4.81) million premature deaths per year worldwide, predominantly in Asia.[79]<br>In 2021, the WHO reported that outdoor air pollution was estimated to cause 4.2 million premature deaths worldwide in 2016.[151]<br>A 2020 study indicates that the global mean loss of life expectancy (LLE; similar to YPLL) from air pollution in 2015 was 2.9 years, substantially more than, for example, 0.3 years from all forms of direct violence, albeit a significant fraction of the LLE is unavoidable.[16] Communities with the most exceptional aging have low ambient air pollution, suggesting a link between air pollution levels and longevity.[152]<br>A study published in 2022 in GeoHealth concluded that eliminating energy-related fossil fuel emissions in the United States would prevent 46,900–59,400 premature deaths each year and provide $537–$678 billion in benefits from avoided PM2.5-related illness and death.[153]<br>A study published in 2023 in Science focused on sulfur dioxide emissions by coal power plants (coal PM2.5) and concluded that "exposure to coal PM2.5 was associated with 2.1 times greater mortality risk than exposure to PM2.5 from all sources."[154] From 1999 to 2020, a total of 460,000 deaths in the US were attributed to coal PM2.5.[154]<br><br>By region[edit]<br>India and China have the highest death rate due to air pollution.[155][156] India also has more deaths from asthma than any other nation according to the World Health Organization. In 2019, 1.6 million deaths in India were caused by air pollution.[157] In December 2013, air pollution was estimated to kill 500,000 people in China each year.[158] There is a positive correlation between pneumonia-related deaths and air pollution from motor vehicle emissions.[159]<br>Annual premature European deaths caused by air pollution are estimated at 430,000[160] to 800,000.[147] An important cause of these deaths is nitrogen dioxide and other nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted by road vehicles.[160] In a 2015 consultation document the UK government disclosed that nitrogen dioxide is responsible for 23,500 premature UK deaths per annum.[161] Across the European Union, air pollution is estimated to reduce life expectancy by almost nine months.[162]<br><br>Guidelines[edit]<br>Main article: Air quality guideline<br>The US EPA has estimated that limiting ground-level ozone concentration to 65 parts per billion (ppb), would avert 1,700 to 5,100 premature deaths nationwide in 2020 compared with the 75 ppb standard. The agency projected the more protective standard would also prevent an additional 26,000 cases of aggravated asthma, and more than a million cases of missed work or school.[163][164] Following this assessment, the EPA acted to protect public health by lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ground-level ozone to 70 ppb.[165]<br>A 2008 economic study of the health impacts and associated costs of air pollution in the Los Angeles Basin and San Joaquin Valley of Southern California shows that more than 3,800 people die prematurely (approximately 14 years earlier than normal) each year because air pollution levels violate federal standards. The number of annual premature deaths is considerably higher than the fatalities related to auto collisions in the same area, which average fewer than 2,000 per year.[166][167][168] A 2021 study found that outdoor air pollution is associated with substantially increased mortality "even at low pollution levels below the current European and North American standards and WHO guideline values" shortly before the WHO adjusted its guidelines.[169][170]<br><br>Major causes[edit]<br>Further information: § Sources<br>A comparison of footprint-based and transboundary pollution-based relationships among G20 nations for the number of PM2.5-related premature deaths[171]<br>The largest cause is air pollution generated by fossil fuel combustion[172] – mostly the production and use of cars, electricity production, and heating.[173] A study by Greenpeace estimates there are 4.5 million annual premature deaths worldwide because of pollutants released by high-emission power stations and vehicle exhausts.[174]<br>Diesel exhaust (DE) is a major contributor to combustion-derived particulate matter air pollution. In several human experimental studies, using a well-validated exposure chamber setup, DE has been linked to acute vascular dysfunction and increased thrombus formation.[175][176]<br>A study concluded that PM2.5 air pollution induced by the contemporary free trade and consumption by the 19 G20 nations causes two million premature deaths annually, suggesting that the average lifetime consumption of about ~28 people in these countries causes at least one premature death (average age ~67) while developing countries "cannot be expected" to implement or be able to implement countermeasures without external support or internationally coordinated efforts.[177][171]<br><br>Primary mechanisms[edit]<br>The WHO estimates that in 2016, ~58% of outdoor air pollution-related premature deaths were due to ischaemic heart disease and stroke.[151] The mechanisms linking air pollution to increased cardiovascular mortality are uncertain, but probably include pulmonary and systemic inflammation.[178]<br><br>Contemporary annual deaths[edit]<br>A 2021 study by scientists of U.K. and U.S. universities that uses a high spatial resolution model and an updated concentration-response function concluded that 10.4 million global excess deaths in 2012 and 8.7 million in 2018 – or a fifth[dubious  – discuss] – were due to air pollution generated by fossil fuel combustion, significantly higher than earlier estimates and with spatially subdivided mortality impacts.[179][172]<br>According to the WHO, air pollution accounts for 1 in 8 deaths worldwide.[180]<br><br>Cardiovascular disease[edit]<br>According to the Global Burden of Disease Study, air pollution is responsible for 19 percent of all cardiovascular deaths.[181][182] A 2022 review of over 50 studies carried out between 2010 and 2021 found strong evidence linking both short- and long-term exposure to air pollution with cardiovascular disease mortality and morbidity, stroke, blood pressure, and  ischemic heart diseases (IHD).[182]<br>Air pollution is a leading risk factor for stroke, particularly in developing countries where pollutant levels are highest.[183] A systematic analysis of 17 different risk factors in 188 countries found air pollution is associated with nearly one in three strokes (29 percent) worldwide (33.7 percent of strokes in developing countries versus 10.2 percent in developed countries).[183][184] A 2007 study found that in women, air pollution is not associated with hemorrhagic but with ischemic stroke.[185] Air pollution was found to be associated with increased incidence and mortality from coronary stroke in a cohort study in 2011.[186] Associations are believed to be causal and effects may be mediated by vasoconstriction, low-grade inflammation and atherosclerosis.[187] Other mechanisms such as autonomic nervous system imbalance have also been suggested.[188][189]<br><br>Lung disease[edit]<br>Research has demonstrated increased risk of developing asthma[190] and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)[191] from increased exposure to traffic-related air pollution. Air pollution has been associated with increased hospitalization and mortality from asthma and COPD.[192][193] COPD includes diseases such as chronic bronchitis and emphysema.[194] The risk of lung disease from air pollution is greatest for the following groups of people: infants and young children, whose normal breathing is faster than that of older children and adults; the elderly; those who work outside or spend a lot of time outside; and those who have heart or lung disease.[195]<br>A study conducted in 1960–1961 in the wake of the Great Smog of 1952 compared 293 London residents with 477 residents of Gloucester, Peterborough, and Norwich, three towns with low reported death rates from chronic bronchitis. All subjects were male postal truck drivers aged 40 to 59. Compared to the subjects from the outlying towns, the London subjects exhibited more severe respiratory symptoms (including cough, phlegm, and dyspnea), reduced lung function (FEV1 and peak flow rate), and increased sputum production and purulence. The differences were more pronounced for subjects aged 50 to 59. The study controlled for age and smoking habits, so concluded that air pollution was the most likely cause of the observed differences.[196]<br>More studies have shown that air pollution exposure from traffic reduces lung function development in children[197] and lung function may be compromised by air pollution even at low concentrations.[198]<br>It is believed that much like cystic fibrosis, by living in a more urban environment serious health hazards become more apparent. Studies have shown that in urban areas people experience mucus hypersecretion, lower levels of lung function, and more self-diagnosis of chronic bronchitis and emphysema.[199]<br>COPD comprises a spectrum of clinical disorders that include emphysema, bronchiectasis, and chronic bronchitis. COPD risk factors are both genetic and environmental. Elevated particle pollution contributes to the exacerbation of this disease and likely its pathogenesis.[200]<br><br>Cancer (lung cancer)[edit]<br>Unprotected exposure to PM2.5 air pollution can be equivalent to smoking multiple cigarettes per day,[201] potentially increasing the risk of cancer, which is mainly the result of environmental factors.[202]<br>Around 300,000 lung cancer deaths were attributed globally in 2019 to exposure to fine particulate matter, PM2.5, contained in air pollution.[203]<br>A review of evidence regarding whether ambient air pollution exposure is a risk factor for cancer in 2007 found solid data to conclude that long-term exposure to PM2.5 (fine particulates) increases the overall risk of non-accidental mortality by 6% per a 10 μg/m3 increase. Exposure to PM2.5 was also associated with an increased risk of mortality from lung cancer (range: 15–21% per 10 μg/m3 increase) and total cardiovascular mortality (range: 12–14% per a 10 μg/m3 increase).[204]<br>The review further noted that living close to busy traffic appears to be associated with elevated risks of these three outcomes – increase in lung cancer deaths, cardiovascular deaths, and overall non-accidental deaths. The reviewers also found suggestive evidence that exposure to PM2.5 is positively associated with mortality from coronary heart diseases and exposure to SO2 increases mortality from lung cancer, but the data was insufficient to provide solid conclusions.[204] Another investigation showed that higher activity level increases deposition fraction of aerosol particles in human lung and recommended avoiding heavy activities like running in outdoor space at polluted areas.[205]<br>In 2011, a large Danish epidemiological study found an increased risk of lung cancer for people who lived in areas with high nitrogen oxide concentrations. In this study, the association was higher for non-smokers than smokers.[206] An additional Danish study, also in 2011, likewise noted evidence of possible associations between air pollution and other forms of cancer, including cervical cancer and brain cancer.[207]<br>A study presented in 2022 outlined the biological basis for how air pollution causes cancer.[203]<br><br>Eye disease[edit]<br>A 2021 study in the UK has suggested a possible association between higher exposure to air pollution and risk of cataract surgery.[208] This study investigated PM2.5, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and nitrogen oxide (NOx) exposure, estimated based on land use models, and identified participants undergoing cataract surgery based on National Health Service data.[208] The authors of this study did note that the relatively low effect estimates and increased risk of 5% indicate a need for further research in determining the existence of a causal relationship.<br>A prospective study published in 2023 measured the thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer in participants over a span of 11 years, aiming to identify associations between air pollution and the development of glaucoma.[209] Air pollution measures used included PM2.5, NO2, and black carbon (BC). The researchers concluded that there was a strong association between exposure to PM2.5 and retinal degeneration, even at air pollution levels below the current European recommended thresholds.[209] This association and similar results have also been seen in a 2021 case-control study in Taiwan.[210] In this study, doubling monthly exposure to PM2.5 increased the risk of developing glaucoma by 66 percent.<br>Dry eye disease (DED), which has been diagnosed at increasing rates in recent decades, has also been associated with increased air pollution. A 2018 study published in Taiwan measured the ambient temperature, levels of NO2, and carbon monoxide (CO) of patients experiencing DED.[211] The researchers found that all of these measures were positively associated with the development of DED at a statistically significant level.[211]<br>Another Taiwanese study from 2022 sought to identify the relationship between PM2.5 and the development of macular degeneration. Using over 4 million participants in a cohort study, and PM2.5 measurements via satellite, the researchers concluded that participants had a 19 percent increased risk of macular degeneration with just a 10 microgram increase in PM2.5  exposure.[212]<br>A Chinese study published in 2020 identified a significant effect of 10 microgram increases in PM2.5  exposure on the development of conjunctivitis.[213] This effect was noted to be acute and most significant at the current day, with effects dropping off after a period of 2 days. The impact was also significantly affected by socioeconomic and demographic factors, leading the authors to also conclude that vulnerable populations are those most at risk.[213]<br><br>Kidney disease[edit]<br>In 2021, a study of 163,197 Taiwanese residents over the period of 2001–2016 estimated that every 5 μg/m3 decrease in the ambient concentration of PM2.5 was associated with a 25% reduced risk of chronic kidney disease development.[214] According to a chord study involving 10,997 atherosclerosis patients, higher PM 2.5 exposure is associate with increased albuminuria.[215]<br><br>Fertility[edit]<br>NO2[edit]<br>In women undergoing IVF treatment, increases in NO2 both at the patient's address and by the IVF lab were significantly associated with a lower live birth rate.[216]<br>In the general population, there is a significant increase in miscarriage rate in women exposed to NO2 compared to the non-exposed group.[216]<br><br>CO[edit]<br>CO exposure is significantly associated with stillbirth in the second and third trimester.[216]<br><br>Standard line-angle structure of benzo-a-pyrene (BaP)<br>Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons[edit]<br>Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) have been associated with reduced fertility. Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) is a well-known PAH and carcinogen which is often found in exhaust fumes and cigarette smoke.[217] PAHs have been reported to administer their toxic effects through oxidative stress by increasing the production of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) which can result in inflammation and cell death. More long-term exposure to PAHs can result in DNA damage and reduced repair.[218]<br>Exposure to BaP has been reported to reduce sperm motility and increasing the exposure worsens this effect. Research has demonstrated that more BaPs were found in men with reported fertility issues compared to men without.[219]<br>Studies have shown that BaPs can affect folliculogenesis and ovarian development by reducing the number of ovarian germ cells via triggering cell death pathways and inducing inflammation which can lead to ovarian damage.[220]<br><br>Particulate matter[edit]<br>Particulate matter (PM) refers to the collection of solids and liquids suspended in the air. These can be harmful to humans when exposed to in day-to-day life, and more research has shown that these effects may be more extensive than first thought; particularly on male fertility. Within the spectrum of PM there are different weights, such as PM2.5 which are tiny particles of 2.5 microns in width or smaller, compared with PM10 which are classified as 10 microns in diameter or less.<br>In a study based in California it was found that as exposure to PM2.5 increased sperm motility decreased and morphology became more abnormal. Similarly, in Poland exposure to PM2.5 and PM10 lead to an increase in the percentage of cells with immature chromatin (DNA that has not fully developed or has developed abnormally).[221]<br>In Turkey, a study looked at the fertility of men who work as toll collectors and are therefore exposed to high levels of traffic pollutants daily. Traffic pollution often has high levels of PM10 alongside carbon monoxide and nitrous oxides.[221] In this study group there were significant differences in sperm count and motility when compared to a control group with limited air pollution exposure.<br>In women, whilst overall effects on fertility did not seem significant there was an association was found between increased exposure to PM10 and early miscarriage. Exposure to smaller particulate matter, PM2.5, was seen to have an effect on conception rates in women undergoing IVF but not with live birth rates.[216]<br><br>Ozone structure showing three oxygen atoms<br>Ground-level ozone pollution[edit]<br>Ground-level ozone (O3), when in high concentrations, is regarded as an air pollutant and is often found in smog in industrial areas. O3 is largely produced by chemical reactions involving NOx gases (nitrous oxides, especially from combustion) and volatile organic compounds in the presence of sunlight.<br>There is limited research about the effect that ozone pollution has on fertility.[216] At present, there is no evidence to suggest that ozone exposure poses a deleterious effect on spontaneous fertility in either females or males. However, there have been studies which suggest that high levels of ozone pollution, often a problem in the summer months, exert an effect on in vitro fertilisation (IVF) outcomes. Within an IVF population, NOx and ozone pollutants were linked with reduced rates of live birth.[216]<br>While most research on this topic is focused on the direct human exposure of air pollution, other studies have analysed the impact of air pollution on gametes and embryos within IVF laboratories. Multiple studies have reported a marked improvement in embryo quality, implantation and pregnancy rates after IVF laboratories have implemented air filters in a concerted effort to reduce levels of air pollution.[222] Therefore, ozone pollution is considered to have a negative impact on the success of assisted reproductive technologies (ART) when occurring at high levels.<br>Ozone is thought to act in a biphasic manner where a positive effect on live birth is observed when ozone exposure is limited to before IVF embryo implantation.[223] Conversely, a negative effect is demonstrated upon exposure to ozone after embryo implantation.[224]<br>Retrospective and prospective studies evaluating the effect of several traffic pollutants (of which ground-level ozone is one) highlighted a significant decrease in live birth rates and miscarriages.[222]<br>In terms of male fertility, ozone is reported to cause a significant decrease in sperm concentration measured in semen after exposure.[225] Similarly, sperm vitality, the proportion of alive spermatozoa in a sample, was demonstrated to be diminished in a handful of studies.[224] This demonstrates that ozone air pollution exhibits a significantly negative effect of air pollution on this parameter. However, findings on the effect of ozone exposure on male fertility are somewhat discordant, highlighting the need for further research.[224]<br><br>Children[edit]<br>In the United States, despite the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970, in 2002 at least 146 million Americans were living in non-attainment areas – regions in which the concentration of certain air pollutants exceeded federal standards.[226] These dangerous pollutants are known as the criteria pollutants, and include ozone, particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, and lead. Protective measures to ensure children's health are being taken in cities such as New Delhi, India, where buses now use compressed natural gas to help eliminate the "pea-soup" smog.[227] A 2015 study in Europe has found that exposure to ultrafine particles can increase blood pressure in children.[228] In a 2018 WHO report, polluted air leads to the poisoning of millions of children under the age of 15, resulting in the death of some six hundred thousand children annually.[229]<br><br>Prenatal exposure[edit]<br>Prenatal exposure to polluted air has been linked to a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders in children. For example, exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) was associated with reduced IQ scores and symptoms of anxiety and depression.[230] They can also lead to detrimental perinatal health outcomes that are often fatal in developing countries.[8] A 2014 study found that PAHs might play a role in the development of childhood attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).[231]<br>Researchers have begun to find evidence for air pollution as a risk factor for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In Los Angeles, children who were living in areas with high levels of traffic-related air pollution were more likely to be diagnosed with autism between three–five years of age.[232] The connection between air pollution and neurodevelopmental disorders in children is thought to be related to epigenetic dysregulation of the primordial germ cells, embryo, and fetus during a critical period. Some PAHs are considered endocrine disruptors and are lipid soluble. When they build up in adipose tissue, they can be transferred across the placenta.[233] Air pollution has been associated with the prevalence of preterm births.[234]<br><br>Infants[edit]<br>Ambient levels of air pollution have been associated with preterm birth and low birth weight. A 2014 WHO worldwide survey on maternal and perinatal health found a statistically significant association between low birth weights (LBW) and increased levels of exposure to PM2.5. Women in regions with greater than average PM2.5 levels had statistically significant higher odds of pregnancy resulting in a low-birth weight infant even when adjusted for country-related variables.[235] The effect is thought to be from stimulating inflammation and increasing oxidative stress.<br>A study by the University of York found that in 2010 exposure to PM2.5 was strongly associated with 18% of preterm births globally, which was approximately 2.7 million premature births. The countries with the highest air pollution associated preterm births were in South and East Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, and West sub-Saharan Africa.[236] In 2019, ambient particulate matter pollution in Africa resulted in at least 383,000 early deaths, according to new estimates of the cost of air pollution in the continent. This increased from 3.6% in 1990 to around 7.4% of all premature deaths in the area.[237][238][239]<br>The source of PM2.5 differs greatly by region. In South and East Asia, pregnant women are frequently exposed to indoor air pollution because of wood and other biomass fuels being used for cooking, which are responsible for more than 80% of regional pollution. In the Middle East, North Africa and West sub-Saharan Africa, fine PM comes from natural sources, such as dust storms.[236] The United States had an estimated 50,000 preterm births associated with exposure to PM2.5 in 2010.[236]<br>A study between 1988 and 1991 found a correlation between sulfur dioxide (SO2) and total suspended particulates (TSP) and preterm births and low birth weights in Beijing. A group of 74,671 pregnant women, in four separate regions of Beijing, were monitored from early pregnancy to delivery along with daily air pollution levels of sulfur Dioxide and TSP (along with other particulates). The estimated reduction in birth weight was 7.3 g for every 100 μg/m3 increase in SO2 and 6.9 g for each 100 μg/m3 increase in TSP. These associations were statistically significant in both summer and winter, although, summer was greater. The proportion of low birth weight attributable to air pollution, was 13%. This is the largest attributable risk ever reported for the known risk factors of low birth weight.[240] Coal stoves, which are in 97% of homes, are a major source of air pollution in this area.<br>Brauer et al. studied the relationship between air pollution and proximity to a highway with pregnancy outcomes in a Vancouver cohort of pregnant woman using addresses to estimate exposure during pregnancy. Exposure to NO, NO2, CO, PM10 and PM2.5 were associated with infants born small for gestational age (SGA). Women living less than 50 meters away from an expressway or highway were 26% more likely to give birth to a SGA infant.[241]<br><br>"Clean" areas[edit]<br>The share of the population exposed to air pollution levels above WHO guidelines, 2016<br>Even in areas with relatively low levels of air pollution, public health effects can be significant and costly, since a large number of people breathe in such pollutants. A study published in 2017 found that even in areas of the U.S. where ozone and PM2.5 meet federal standards, Medicare recipients who are exposed to more air pollution have higher mortality rates.[242]<br>A 2005 scientific study for the British Columbia Lung Association showed that a small improvement in air quality (1% reduction of ambient PM2.5 and ozone concentrations) would produce $29 million in annual savings in the Metro Vancouver region in 2010.[243] This finding is based on health valuation of lethal (death) and sub-lethal (illness) affects. A study published in 2022 found that rural population in India, like those in urban areas, are also exposed to high levels of air pollution.[244]<br>In 2020, scientists found that the boundary layer air over the Southern Ocean around Antarctica is 'unpolluted' by humans.[245]<br><br>Central nervous system[edit]<br>See also: Neuroplastic effects of pollution<br>Data is accumulating that air pollution exposure also affects the central nervous system.[246]<br>Air pollution increases the risk of dementia in people over 50 years old.[247] Childhood indoor air pollution may negatively affect cognitive function and neurodevelopment.[248][249] Prenatal exposure may also affect neurodevelopment.[250][251] Studies show that air pollution is associated with a variety of developmental disabilities, oxidative stress, and neuro-inflammation and that it may contribute to Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.[249]<br><br>Researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center found that early exposure to air pollution causes the same changes in the brain as autism and schizophrenia. This study was published in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, in June 2014. It also showed that air pollution also affected short-term memory, learning ability, and impulsivity. Lead researcher Deborah Cory-Slechta said that:  When we looked closely at the ventricles, we could see that the white matter that normally surrounds them hadn't fully developed. It appears that inflammation had damaged those brain cells and prevented that region of the brain from developing, and the ventricles simply expanded to fill the space. Our findings add to the growing body of evidence that air pollution may play a role in autism, as well as in other neurodevelopmental disorders.<br>Exposure to fine particulate matter can increase levels of cytokines - neurotransmitters produced in response to infection and inflammation that are also associated with depression and suicide. Pollution has been associated with inflammation of the brain, which may disrupt mood regulation. According to a study of Washington DC's American University, heightened PM2.5 levels are linked to more self-reported depressive symptoms, and increases in daily suicide rates.[252]<br>In a study of mice, air pollution also has a larger negative impact on males than on females.[253][254][255]<br>In 2015, experimental studies reported the detection of significant episodic (situational) cognitive impairment from impurities in indoor air breathed by test subjects who were not informed about changes in the air quality. Researchers at the Harvard University and SUNY Upstate Medical University and Syracuse University measured the cognitive performance of 24 participants in three different controlled laboratory atmospheres that simulated those found in "conventional" and "green" buildings, as well as green buildings with enhanced ventilation. Performance was evaluated objectively using the widely used Strategic Management Simulation software simulation tool, which is a well-validated assessment test for executive decision-making in an unconstrained situation allowing initiative and improvisation. Significant deficits were observed in the performance scores achieved in increasing concentrations of either volatile organic compounds (VOCs) or carbon dioxide, while keeping other factors constant. The highest impurity levels reached are not uncommon in some classroom or office environments.[256][257] Higher PM2.5 and CO2 concentrations were shown to be associated with slower response times and reduced accuracy in tests.[258]<br><br>Agricultural effects[edit]<br>Various studies have estimated the impacts of air pollution on agriculture, especially ozone. A 2020  study showed that ozone pollution in California may reduce yields of certain perennial crops such as table grapes by as much as 22% per year, translating into economic damages of more than $1 billion per year.[259] After air pollutants enter the agricultural environment, they not only directly affect agricultural production and quality, but also enter agricultural waters and soil.[260] The COVID-19 induced lockdown served as a natural experiment to expose the close links between air quality and surface greenness. In India, the lockdown induced improvement in air quality, enhanced surface greenness and photosynthetic activity, with the positive response of vegetation to reduce air pollution was dominant in croplands.[261] On the other hand, agriculture in its traditional form is one of the primary contributors to the emission of trace gases like atmospheric ammonia.[262]<br><br>Economic effects[edit]<br>Air pollution costs the world economy $5 trillion per year as a result of productivity losses and degraded quality of life, in a 2016 joint study by the World Bank and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington.[24][25][26] These productivity losses are caused by deaths due to diseases caused by air pollution. One out of ten deaths in 2013 was caused by diseases associated with air pollution and the problem is getting worse. The problem is even more acute in the developing world. "Children under age 5 in lower-income countries are more than 60 times as likely to die from exposure to air pollution as children in high-income countries."[24][25] The report states that additional economic losses caused by air pollution, including health costs[263] and the adverse effect on agricultural and other productivity were not calculated in the report, and thus the actual costs to the world economy are far higher than $5 trillion. A study published in 2022 found "a strong and significant connection between air pollution and construction site accidents" and that "a 10-ppb increase in NO2 levels increases the likelihood of an accident by as much as 25 percent".[264]<br><br>Other effects[edit]<br>Artificial air pollution may be detectable on Earth from distant vantage points such as other planetary systems via atmospheric SETI – including NO2 pollution levels and with telescopic technology close to today. It may also be possible to detect extraterrestrial civilizations this way.[265][266][267]<br><br>Historical disasters[edit]<br>The world's worst short-term civilian pollution crisis was the 1984 Bhopal Disaster in India.[268] Leaked industrial vapours from the Union Carbide factory, belonging to Union Carbide, Inc., U.S.A. (later bought by Dow Chemical Company), killed at least 3787 people and injured from 150,000 to 600,000. The United Kingdom suffered its worst air pollution event when the 4 December Great Smog of 1952 formed over London. In six days more than 4,000 died and more recent estimates put the figure at nearer 12,000.[269]<br>An accidental leak of anthrax spores from a biological warfare laboratory in the former USSR in 1979 near Yekaterinburg (formerly Sverdlovsk) is believed to have caused at least 64 deaths.[270] The worst single incident of air pollution to occur in the US occurred in Donora, Pennsylvania, in late October 1948, when 20 people died and over 7,000 were injured.[271]<br><br>Reduction and regulation[edit]<br>Global depletion of the surrounding air pollution will require valiant leadership, a surplus of combined resources from the international community, and extensive societal changes.[272] Pollution prevention seeks to prevent pollution such as air pollution and could include adjustments to industrial and business activities such as designing sustainable manufacturing processes (and the products' designs)[273] and related legal regulations as well as efforts towards renewable energy transitions.[274][275]<br>Efforts to reduce particulate matter in the air may result in better health.[276]<br>The 9-Euro-Ticket scheme in Germany which allowed people to buy a monthly pass allowing use on all local and regional transport (trains, trams and busses) for 9 euro (€) for one month of unlimited travel saved 1.8 million tons of CO2 emissions during its three-month implementation from June to August 2022.[277]<br><br>Pollution control[edit]<br>Burning of items polluting Jamestown environment in Accra, Ghana<br>Various pollution control technologies and strategies are available to reduce air pollution.[278][279] At its most basic level, land-use planning is likely to involve zoning and transport infrastructure planning. In most developed countries, land-use planning is an important part of social policy, ensuring that land is used efficiently for the benefit of the wider economy and population, as well as to protect the environment.[280] Stringent environmental regulations, effective control technologies and shift towards the renewable source of energy also helping countries like China and India to reduce their sulfur dioxide pollution.[281]<br>Titanium dioxide has been researched for its ability to reduce air pollution. Ultraviolet light will release free electrons from material, thereby creating free radicals, which break up VOCs and NOx gases. One form is superhydrophilic.[282]<br>Pollution-eating nanoparticles placed near a busy road were shown to absorb toxic emission from around 20 cars each day.[283]<br><br>Energy transition[edit]<br>Since a large share of air pollution is caused by combustion of fossil fuels such as coal and oil, the reduction of these fuels can reduce air pollution drastically. Most effective is the switch to clean power sources such as wind power, solar power, hydro power which do not cause air pollution.[284] Efforts to reduce pollution from mobile sources includes expanding regulation to new sources (such as cruise and transport ships, farm equipment, and small gas-powered equipment such as string trimmers, chainsaws, and snowmobiles), increased fuel efficiency (such as through the use of hybrid vehicles), conversion to cleaner fuels, and conversion to electric vehicles.<br>A very effective means to reduce air pollution is the transition to renewable energy. According to a study published in Energy and Environmental Science in 2015 the switch to 100% renewable energy in the United States would eliminate about 62,000 premature mortalities per year and about 42,000 in 2050, if no biomass were used. This would save about $600 billion in health costs a year due to reduced air pollution in 2050, or about 3.6% of the 2014 U.S. gross domestic product.[284] Air quality improvement is a near-term benefit among the many societal benefits from climate change mitigation.<br><br>Alternatives to pollution[edit]<br>Support for a ban on high-emission vehicles in city centres in Europe, China and the US from respondents to the European Investment Bank Climate Survey<br>Support, use and infrastructure-expansion of forms of public transport that do not cause air pollution may be a critical key alternative to pollution.<br>There are now practical alternatives to the principal causes of air pollution:<br><br>Strategic substitution of air pollution sources in transport with lower-emission or, during the lifecycle, emission-free forms of public transport[285][286] and bicycle use and infrastructure (as well as with remote work, reductions of work, relocations, and localizations)<br>Phase-out of fossil fuel vehicles is a critical component of a shift to sustainable transport; however, similar infrastructure and design decisions like electric vehicles may be associated with similar pollution for production as well as mining and resource exploitation for large numbers of needed batteries as well as the energy for their recharging[287][288]<br>Areas downwind (over 20 miles) of major airports have more than double total particulate emissions in air than other areas, even when factoring in areas with frequent ship calls, and heavy freeway and city traffic like Los Angeles.[289] Aviation biofuel mixed in with jetfuel at a 50/50 ratio can reduce jet derived cruise altitude particulate emissions by 50–70%, according to a NASA led 2017 study (however, this should imply ground level benefits to urban air pollution as well).[290]<br>Ship propulsion and idling can be switched to much cleaner fuels like natural gas. (Ideally a renewable source but not practical yet)<br>Combustion of fossil fuels for space heating can be replaced by using ground source heat pumps and seasonal thermal energy storage.[291]<br>Electricity generated from the combustion of fossil fuels can be replaced by nuclear and renewable energy. Heating and home stoves, which contribute significantly to regional air pollution, can be replaced with a much cleaner fossil fuel, such as natural gas, or, preferably, renewables, in poor countries.[292][293]<br>Motor vehicles driven by fossil fuels, a key factor in urban air pollution, can be replaced by electric vehicles. Though lithium supply and cost is a limitation, there are alternatives. Herding more people into clean public transit such as electric trains can also help. Nevertheless, even in emission-free electric vehicles, rubber tires produce significant amounts of air pollution themselves, ranking as 13th worst pollutant in Los Angeles.[294]<br>Reducing travel in vehicles can curb pollution. After Stockholm reduced vehicle traffic in the central city with a congestion tax, nitrogen dioxide and PM10 pollution declined, as did acute pediatric asthma attacks.[295]<br>Biodigesters can be utilized in poor nations where slash and burn is prevalent, turning a useless commodity into a source of income. The plants can be gathered and sold to a central authority that will break them down in a large modern biodigester, producing much needed energy to use.[296]<br>Induced humidity and ventilation both can greatly dampen air pollution in enclosed spaces, which was found to be relatively high inside subway lines due to braking and friction and relatively less ironically inside transit buses than lower sitting passenger automobiles or subways.[297]<br>Further information: § Sources<br>Control devices[edit]<br>Tarps and netting are often used to reduce the amount of dust released from construction sites.<br>Air pollution from a car<br>The following items are commonly used as pollution control devices in industry and transportation. They can either destroy contaminants or remove them from an exhaust stream before it is emitted into the atmosphere.<br><br><br>Particulate control<br>Mechanical collectors (dust cyclones, multicyclones)<br>Electrostatic precipitators: An electrostatic precipitator (ESP), or electrostatic air cleaner, is a particulate collection device that removes particles from a flowing gas (such as air), using the force of an induced electrostatic charge. Electrostatic precipitators are highly efficient filtration devices that minimally impede the flow of gases through the device, and can easily remove fine particulates such as dust and smoke from the air stream.<br>Baghouses: Designed to handle heavy dust loads, a dust collector consists of a blower, dust filter, a filter-cleaning system, and a dust receptacle or dust removal system (distinguished from air cleaners which utilize disposable filters to remove the dust).<br>Particulate scrubbers: A wet scrubber is a form of pollution control technology. The term describes a variety of devices that use pollutants from a furnace flue gas or from other gas streams. In a wet scrubber, the polluted gas stream is brought into contact with the scrubbing liquid, by spraying it with the liquid, by forcing it through a pool of liquid, or by some other contact method, so as to remove the pollutants.<br>Scrubbers<br>Baffle spray scrubber<br>Cyclonic spray scrubber<br>Ejector venturi scrubber<br>Mechanically aided scrubber<br>Spray tower<br>Wet scrubber<br>NOx control<br>LO-NOx burners<br>Selective catalytic reduction (SCR)<br>Selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR)<br>NOx scrubbers<br>Exhaust gas recirculation<br>Catalytic converter (also for VOC control)<br>VOC abatement<br>Adsorption systems, using activated carbon, such as Fluidized Bed Concentrator<br>Flares<br>Thermal oxidizers<br>Catalytic converters<br>Biofilters<br>Absorption (scrubbing)<br>Cryogenic condensers<br>Vapor recovery systems<br>Acid gas/SO2 control<br>Wet scrubbers<br>Dry scrubbers<br>Flue-gas desulfurization<br>Mercury control<br>Sorbent injection technology<br>Electro-catalytic oxidation (ECO)<br>K-Fuel<br>Dioxin and furan control<br>Miscellaneous associated equipment<br>Source capturing systems<br>Continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS)<br><br>Monitoring[edit]<br>See also: Smart city<br>Further information: Air pollution measurement and Environmental monitoringSpatiotemporal monitoring of air quality may be necessary for improving air quality, and thereby the health and safety of the public, and assessing impacts of interventions.[298] Such monitoring is done to different extents with different regulatory requirements with discrepant regional coverage by a variety of organizations and governance entities such as using a variety of technologies for use of the data and sensing such mobile IoT sensors,[299][300] satellites,[301][302][303] and monitoring stations.[304][305] Some websites attempt to map air pollution levels using available data.[306][307][308]<br>Air quality modeling[edit]<br>Main article: Air quality modeling<br>Numerical models either on a global scale using tools such as GCMs (general circulation models coupled with a pollution module) or CTMs (Chemical transport model) can be used to simulate the levels of different pollutants in the atmosphere. These tools can have several types (Atmospheric model) and different uses. These models can be used in forecast mode which can help policy makers to decide on appropriate actions when an air pollution episode is detected. They can also be used for climate modeling including evolution of air quality in the future, for example the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) provides climate simulations including air quality assessments in their reports (latest report accessible through their site).<br><br>Regulations[edit]<br>Main article: Air quality law<br>Smog in Cairo<br>In general, there are two types of air quality standards. The first class of standards (such as the U.S. National Ambient Air Quality Standards and E.U. Air Quality Directive[309]) set maximum atmospheric concentrations for specific pollutants. Environmental agencies enact regulations which are intended to result in attainment of these target levels. The second class (such as the North American air quality index) take the form of a scale with various thresholds, which is used to communicate to the public the relative risk of outdoor activity. The scale may or may not distinguish between different pollutants.<br><br>Canada[edit]<br>In Canada, air pollution and associated health risks are measured with the Air Quality Health Index (AQHI).[310] It is a health protection tool used to make decisions to reduce short-term exposure to air pollution by adjusting activity levels during increased levels of air pollution.<br>The AQHI is a federal program jointly coordinated by Health Canada and Environment Canada. However, the AQHI program would not be possible without the commitment and support of the provinces, municipalities and NGOs. From air quality monitoring to health risk communication and community engagement, local partners are responsible for the vast majority of work related to AQHI implementation. The AQHI provides a number from 1 to 10+ to indicate the level of health risk associated with local air quality. Occasionally, when the amount of air pollution is abnormally high, the number may exceed 10. The AQHI provides a local air quality current value as well as a local air quality maximums forecast for today, tonight and tomorrow and provides associated health advice.<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br>3<br>4<br>5<br>6<br>7<br>8<br>9<br>10<br>+<br><br><br><br>Risk:<br>Low (1–3)<br>Moderate (4–6)<br>High (7–10)<br>Very high (above 10)<br><br>As it is now known that even low levels of air pollution can trigger discomfort for the sensitive population, the index has been developed as a continuum: The higher the number, the greater the health risk and need to take precautions. The index describes the level of health risk associated with this number as 'low', 'moderate', 'high' or 'very high', and suggests steps that can be taken to reduce exposure.[311]<br><br><br><br>Health risk<br>Air Quality Health Index<br>Health messages[312]<br><br><br>At risk population<br>General population<br><br><br>Low<br>1–3<br>Enjoy your usual outdoor activities.<br>Ideal air quality for outdoor activities<br><br><br>Moderate<br>4–6<br>Consider reducing or rescheduling strenuous activities outdoors if you are experiencing symptoms.<br>No need to modify your usual outdoor activities unless you experience symptoms such as coughing and throat irritation.<br><br><br>High<br>7–10<br>Reduce or reschedule strenuous activities outdoors. Children and the elderly should also take it easy.<br>Consider reducing or rescheduling strenuous activities outdoors if you experience symptoms such as coughing and throat irritation.<br><br><br>Very high<br>Above 10<br>Avoid strenuous activities outdoors. Children and the elderly should also avoid outdoor physical exertion and should stay indoors.<br>Reduce or reschedule strenuous activities outdoors, especially if you experience symptoms such as coughing and throat irritation.<br><br>The measurement is based on the observed relationship of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ground-level ozone (O3) and particulates (PM2.5) with mortality, from an analysis of several Canadian cities. Significantly, all three of these pollutants can pose health risks, even at low levels of exposure, especially among those with pre-existing health problems.<br>When developing the AQHI, Health Canada's original analysis of health effects included five major air pollutants: particulates, ozone, and nitrogen dioxide (NO2), as well as sulfur dioxide (SO2), and carbon monoxide (CO). The latter two pollutants provided little information in predicting health effects and were removed from the AQHI formulation.<br>The AQHI does not measure the effects of odour, pollen, dust, heat or humidity.<br><br>Germany[edit]<br>TA Luft is the German air quality regulation.[313]<br><br>Governing urban air pollution[edit]<br>Further information: Phase-out of fossil fuel vehicles § Cities and territories<br>In Europe, Council Directive 96/62/EC on ambient air quality assessment and management provides a common strategy against which member states can "set objectives for ambient air quality in order to avoid, prevent or reduce harmful effects on human health and the environment ... and improve air quality where it is unsatisfactory".[314]<br>In July 2008, in the case Dieter Janecek v. Freistaat Bayern, the European Court of Justice ruled that under this directive[314] citizens have the right to require national authorities to implement a short term action plan that aims to maintain or achieve compliance to air quality limit values.[315][316]<br>This important case law appears to confirm the role of the EC as centralised regulator to European nation-states as regards air pollution control. It places a supranational legal obligation on the UK to protect its citizens from dangerous levels of air pollution, furthermore superseding national interests with those of the citizen.<br>In 2010, the European Commission (EC) threatened the UK with legal action against the successive breaching of PM10 limit values.[317] The UK government has identified that if fines are imposed, they could cost the nation upwards of £300 million per year.[318]<br>In March 2011, the Greater London Built-up Area remained the only UK region in breach of the EC's limit values, and was given three months to implement an emergency action plan aimed at meeting the EU Air Quality Directive.[319] The City of London has dangerous levels of PM10 concentrations, estimated to cause 3000 deaths per year within the city.[320] As well as the threat of EU fines, in 2010 it was threatened with legal action for scrapping the western congestion charge zone, which is claimed to have led to an increase in air pollution levels.[321]<br>In response to these charges, mayor of London Boris Johnson has criticised the current need for European cities to communicate with Europe through their nation state's central government, arguing that in future "A great city like London" should be permitted to bypass its government and deal directly with the European Commission regarding its air quality action plan.[319]<br>This can be interpreted as recognition that cities can transcend the traditional national government organisational hierarchy and develop solutions to air pollution using global governance networks, for example through transnational relations. Transnational relations include but are not exclusive to national governments and intergovernmental organisations,[322] allowing sub-national actors including cities and regions to partake in air pollution control as independent actors.<br>Global city partnerships can be built into networks, for example the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, of which London is a member. The C40 is a public 'non-state' network of the world's leading cities that aims to curb their greenhouse emissions.[323] The C40 has been identified as 'governance from the middle' and is an alternative to intergovernmental policy.[324] It has the potential to improve urban air quality as participating cities "exchange information, learn from best practices and consequently mitigate carbon dioxide emissions independently from national government decisions".[323] A criticism of the C40 network is that its exclusive nature limits influence to participating cities and risks drawing resources away from less powerful city and regional actors.<br><br>Indigenous people[edit]<br>Because Indigenous people[325] frequently experience a disproportionate share of the effects of environmental degradation and climate change, even while they have made very little contribution to the processes causing these changes, environmental justice is especially important to them. Indigenous peoples have been marginalized and their lands and resources have been exploited as a result of historical and continuing colonization, institutional injustices, and inequality.<br>Indigenous groups frequently lack the political and financial clout to influence policy decisions that impact their lands and means of subsistence or to lessen the effects of climate change. This makes the already-existing inequalities in these communities' social, economic, and health conditions worse. Furthermore, traditional ecological knowledge and Indigenous knowledge systems provide insightful information about sustainable resource management and climate change adaptation techniques. To promote persistence and environmental justice, Indigenous viewpoints must be acknowledged and integrated into efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change and adapt to them.<br>Combating climate change necessitates an all-encompassing strategy that recognizes the interdependence of social, economic, and environmental elements. This entails defending treaty rights, advancing Indigenous sovereignty and self-determination, and aiding Indigenous-led projects for sustainable development and environmental preservation.<br><br>Hotspots[edit]<br>Main article: Toxic hotspot<br>See also: Cancer alley and Superfund<br>Air pollution hotspots are areas where air pollution emissions expose individuals to increased negative health effects.[326] They are particularly common in highly populated, urban areas, where there may be a combination of stationary sources (e.g. industrial facilities) and mobile sources (e.g. cars and trucks) of pollution. Emissions from these sources can cause respiratory disease, childhood asthma,[140] cancer, and other health problems. Fine particulate matter such as diesel soot, which contributes to more than 3.2 million premature deaths around the world each year, is a significant problem. It is very small and can lodge itself within the lungs and enter the bloodstream. Diesel soot is concentrated in densely populated areas, and one in six people in the U.S. live near a diesel pollution hot spot.[327]<br><br>External videos AirVisual Earth – realtime map of global wind and air pollution[328]<br>While air pollution hotspots affect a variety of populations, some groups are more likely to be located in hotspots. Previous studies have shown disparities in exposure to pollution by race and/or income. Hazardous land uses (toxic storage and disposal facilities, manufacturing facilities, major roadways) tend to be located where property values and income levels are low. Low socioeconomic status can be a proxy for other kinds of social vulnerability, including race, a lack of ability to influence regulation and a lack of ability to move to neighborhoods with less environmental pollution. These communities bear a disproportionate burden of environmental pollution and are more likely to face health risks such as cancer or asthma.[329]<br>Studies show that patterns in race and income disparities not only indicate a higher exposure to pollution but also higher risk of adverse health outcomes.[330] Communities characterized by low socioeconomic status and racial minorities can be more vulnerable to cumulative adverse health impacts resulting from elevated exposure to pollutants than more privileged communities.[330] Blacks and Latinos generally face more pollution than Whites and Asians, and low-income communities bear a higher burden of risk than affluent ones.[329] Racial discrepancies are particularly distinct in suburban areas of the Southern United States and metropolitan areas of the Midwestern and Western United States.[331] Residents in public housing, who are generally low-income and cannot move to healthier neighborhoods, are highly affected by nearby refineries and chemical plants.[332]<br><br>Cities[edit]<br>See also: List of most polluted cities in the world by particulate matter concentration<br>Further information: List of least polluted cities by particulate matter concentration<br>Nitrogen dioxide concentrations as measured from satellite 2002–2004<br>Air pollution is usually concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, especially in developing countries where cities are experiencing rapid growth and environmental regulations are relatively lax or nonexistent. Urbanization leads to a rapid rise in premature mortality due to anthropogenic air pollution in fast-growing tropical cities.[333] However, even populated areas in developed countries attain unhealthy levels of pollution, with Los Angeles and Rome being two examples.[334] Between 2002 and 2011 the incidence of lung cancer in Beijing near doubled. While smoking remains the leading cause of lung cancer in China, the number of smokers is falling while lung cancer rates are rising .[335]<br><br><br>[336]<br><br><br>World's Most Polluted Cities 2020<br><br>2020 Average<br><br>2019 Average<br><br><br>Hotan, China<br><br>110.2<br><br>110.1<br><br><br>Ghaziabad, India<br><br>106.6<br><br>110.2<br><br><br>Bulandshahr, India<br><br>98.4<br><br>89.4<br><br><br>Bisrakh Jalalpur, India<br><br>96.0<br><br>-<br><br><br>Bhiwadi, India<br><br>95.5<br><br>83.4<br><br>Tehran was declared the most polluted city in the world on May 24, 2022.[337]<br><br>Projections[edit]<br>In a 2019 projection, by 2030 half of the world's pollution emissions could be generated by Africa.[338] Potential contributors to such an outcome include increased burning activities (such as the burning of open waste), traffic, agri-food and chemical industries, sand dust from the Sahara, and overall population growth.<br>In a 2012 study, by 2050 outdoor air pollution (particulate matter and ground-level ozone) is projected to become the top cause of environmentally related deaths worldwide.[339]<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Global warming portal<br><br>Source<br><br>Beehive burner<br>Bottom ash<br>Concrete#Concrete – health and safety<br>Diwali-related air pollution<br>Flue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion<br>Health impacts of sawdust<br>Joss paper<br>Metal working<br>Mining<br>Non-exhaust emissions<br>Power tool<br>Rubber pollution<br>Slag<br>Smelting<br>Tire fire<br>Welding<br>Wood ash<br>Measurement<br><br>Air pollutant concentrations<br>Air pollution measurement<br>Organic molecular tracers<br>Intake fraction<br>Particulate matter sampler<br>Others<br><br>Air stagnation<br>ASEAN Agreement on Transboundary Haze Pollution<br>Asian brown cloud<br>Atmospheric chemistry<br>BenMAP<br>Best Available Control Technology<br>Critical load<br>Emission standard<br>Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database<br>Environmental agreement<br>Environmental racism<br>Exposome<br>Global Atmosphere Watch<br>Global dimming<br>Great Smog of London<br>Haze<br>Health Effects Institute (HEI)<br>Indicator value<br>International Agency for Research on Cancer<br>International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies<br>Kyoto Protocol<br>Light water reactor sustainability<br>List of smogs by death toll<br>Lowest Achievable Emissions Rate<br>NASA Clean Air Study<br>NIEHS<br>Polluter pays principle<br>Regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act<br>Silicosis#Prevention<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ a b c "Air pollution". www.who.int. Retrieved 14 January 2023.<br><br>^ a b Manisalidis I, Stavropoulou E, Stavropoulos A, Bezirtzoglou E (2020). "Environmental and Health Impacts of Air Pollution: A Review". Frontiers in Public Health. 8: 14. doi:10.3389/fpubh.2020.00014. ISSN 2296-2565. PMC 7044178. PMID 32154200.<br><br>^ Howell R, Pickerill J (2016). "The Environment and Environmentalism". In Daniels P, Bradshaw M, Shaw D, Sidaway J, Hall T (eds.). An Introduction To Human Geography (5th ed.). Pearson. p. 134. ISBN 978-1-292-12939-6.<br><br>^ Dimitriou A, Christidou V (26 September 2011), Khallaf M (ed.), "Causes and Consequences of Air Pollution and Environmental Injustice as Critical Issues for Science and Environmental Education", The Impact of Air Pollution on Health, Economy, Environment and Agricultural Sources, InTech, doi:10.5772/17654, ISBN 978-953-307-528-0, retrieved 31 May 2022<br><br>^ a b c d e f "7 million premature deaths annually linked to air pollution". WHO. 25 March 2014. Retrieved 25 March 2014.<br><br>^ Allen JL, Klocke C, Morris-Schaffer K, Conrad K, Sobolewski M, Cory-Slechta DA (June 2017). "Cognitive Effects of Air Pollution Exposures and Potential Mechanistic Underpinnings". Current Environmental Health Reports. 4 (2): 180–191. doi:10.1007/s40572-017-0134-3. PMC 5499513. PMID 28435996.<br><br>^ Newbury JB, Stewart R, Fisher HL, Beevers S, Dajnak D, Broadbent M, et al. (2021). "Association between air pollution exposure and mental health service use among individuals with first presentations of psychotic and mood disorders: retrospective cohort study". The British Journal of Psychiatry. 219 (6) (published 19 August 2021): 678–685. doi:10.1192/bjp.2021.119. ISSN 0007-1250. PMC 8636613. PMID 35048872.<br><br>^ a b Ghosh R, Causey K, Burkart K, Wozniak S, Cohen A, Brauer M (28 September 2021). "Ambient and household PM2.5 pollution and adverse perinatal outcomes: A meta-regression and analysis of attributable global burden for 204 countries and territories". PLOS Medicine. 18 (9): e1003718. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1003718. ISSN 1549-1676. PMC 8478226. PMID 34582444.<br><br>^ Dominski FH, Lorenzetti Branco JH, Buonanno G, Stabile L, Gameiro da Silva M, Andrade A (October 2021). "Effects of air pollution on health: A mapping review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses". Environmental Research. 201: 111487. doi:10.1016/j.envres.2021.111487. ISSN 0013-9351. PMID 34116013.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: overridden setting (link)<br><br>^ Lee KK, Bing R, Kiang J, Bashir S, Spath N, Stelzle D, et al. (November 2020). "Adverse health effects associated with household air pollution: a systematic review, meta-analysis, and burden estimation study". The Lancet Global Health. 8 (11): e1427–e1434. doi:10.1016/S2214-109X(20)30343-0. ISSN 2214-109X. PMC 7564377. PMID 33069303.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: overridden setting (link)<br><br>^ Stanek LW, Brown JS, Stanek J, Gift J, Costa DL (2011). "Air Pollution Toxicology—A Brief Review of the Role of the Science in Shaping the Current Understanding of Air Pollution Health Risks". Toxicological Sciences. 120: S8–S27. doi:10.1093/toxsci/kfq367. PMID 21147959. Retrieved 7 November 2022.<br><br>^ Majumder N, Kodali V, Velayutham M, Goldsmith T, Amedro J, Khramtsov VV, et al. (2022). "Aerosol physicochemical determinants of carbon black and ozone inhalation co-exposure induced pulmonary toxicity". Toxicological Sciences. 191 (1): 61–78. doi:10.1093/toxsci/kfac113. PMC 9887725. PMID 36303316.<br><br>^ Daniel A. Vallero (2014). Fundamentals of Air Pollution. Academic Press. pp. 43, 122, 215. ISBN 978-0-12-404602-3.<br><br>^ a b c d Fuller R, Landrigan PJ, Balakrishnan K, Bathan G, Bose-O'Reilly S, Brauer M, et al. (June 2022). "Pollution and health: a progress update". The Lancet Planetary Health. 6 (6): e535–e547. doi:10.1016/S2542-5196(22)00090-0. PMID 35594895. S2CID 248905224.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: overridden setting (link)<br><br>^ Juginović A, Vuković M, Aranza I, Biloš V (18 November 2021). "Health impacts of air pollution exposure from 1990 to 2019 in 43 European countries". Scientific Reports. 11 (1): 22516. Bibcode:2021NatSR..1122516J. doi:10.1038/s41598-021-01802-5. eISSN 2045-2322. PMC 8602675. PMID 34795349.<br><br>^ a b Lelieveld J, Pozzer A, Pöschl U, Fnais M, Haines A, Münzel T (1 September 2020). "Loss of life expectancy from air pollution compared to other risk factors: a worldwide perspective". Cardiovascular Research. 116 (11): 1910–1917. doi:10.1093/cvr/cvaa025. ISSN 0008-6363. PMC 7449554. PMID 32123898.<br><br>^ "Energy and Air Pollution" (PDF). Iea.org. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 October 2019. Retrieved 12 March 2019.<br><br>^ "Study Links 6.5 Million Deaths Each Year to Air Pollution". The New York Times. 26 June 2016. Retrieved 27 June 2016.<br><br>^ Lelieveld J, Klingmüller K, Pozzer A, Burnett RT, Haines A, Ramanathan V (25 March 2019). "Effects of fossil fuel and total anthropogenic emission removal on public health and climate". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 116 (15): 7192–7197. Bibcode:2019PNAS..116.7192L. doi:10.1073/pnas.1819989116. PMC 6462052. PMID 30910976. S2CID 85515425.<br><br>^ Silva RA, West JJ, Zhang Y, Anenberg SC, Lamarque JF, Shindell DT, et al. (2013). "Global premature mortality due to anthropogenic outdoor air pollution and the contribution of past climate change". Environmental Research Letters. 8 (3): 034005. Bibcode:2013ERL.....8c4005S. doi:10.1088/1748-9326/8/3/034005.<br><br>^ a b "9 out of 10 people worldwide breathe polluted air, but more countries are taking action". World Health Organization. 2 May 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2021.<br><br>^ "Cheap air pollution monitors help plot your walk". European Investment Bank. Retrieved 18 May 2021.<br><br>^ "Assessing the risks to health from air pollution". www.eea.europa.eu. European Environment Agency. Retrieved 18 May 2021.<br><br>^ a b c World Bank, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at University of Washington – Seattle (2016). The Cost of Air Pollution: Strengthening the Economic Case for Action (PDF). Washington, D.C.: The World Bank. xii.<br><br>^ a b c McCauley L (8 September 2016). "Making Case for Clean Air, World Bank Says Pollution Cost Global Economy $5 Trillion". Common Dreams. Retrieved 3 February 2018.<br><br>^ a b "The Rising Cost of Smog". Fortune: 15. 1 February 2018. ISSN 0015-8259.<br><br>^ Batool R, Zaman K, Khurshid MA, Sheikh SM, Aamir A, Shoukry AM, et al. (October 2019). "Economics of death and dying: a critical evaluation of environmental damages and healthcare reforms across the globe". Environmental Science and Pollution Research International. 26 (29): 29799–29809. Bibcode:2019ESPR...2629799B. doi:10.1007/s11356-019-06159-x. ISSN 1614-7499. PMID 31407261. S2CID 199528114.<br><br>^ Bherwani H, Nair M, Musugu K, Gautam S, Gupta A, Kapley A, et al. (10 June 2020). "Valuation of air pollution externalities: comparative assessment of economic damage and emission reduction under COVID-19 lockdown". Air Quality, Atmosphere & Health. 13 (6): 683–694. Bibcode:2020AQAH...13..683B. doi:10.1007/s11869-020-00845-3. ISSN 1873-9318. PMC 7286556. PMID 32837611.<br><br>^ Boubel R, Vallero D, Fox D, Turner B, Stern A (2013). Fundamentals of Air Pollution (Third ed.). Elsevier. pp. 447–522. ISBN 9780080507071. Retrieved 10 April 2024.<br><br>^ Regulating Air Quality: The First Global Assessment of Air Pollution Legislation. Nairobi, Kenya: United Nations Environment Programme. 2021. ISBN 978-92-807-3872-8. Retrieved 10 April 2024.<br><br>^ Brimblecombe P (2006). "The clean air act after 50 years". Weather. 61 (11): 311–314. Bibcode:2006Wthr...61..311B. doi:10.1256/wea.127.06. Retrieved 11 April 2024.<br><br>^ "Progress Cleaning the Air and Improving People's Health". US Environmental Protection Agency. 8 June 2015. Retrieved 11 April 2024.<br><br>^ Environment UN (29 October 2018). "About Montreal Protocol". Ozonaction. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ "The Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer". United States Department of State. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ "Protocol On Further Reduction Of Sulphur Emissions To The Convention On Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution | International Environmental Agreements (IEA) Database Project". iea.uoregon.edu. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ Nations U. "ClimateChange". United Nations. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ "Climate change". www.who.int. World Health Organization. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ "Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures". Council on Foreign Relations. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ "Basic Information about NO2". US Environmental Protection Agency. 6 July 2016. Retrieved 12 April 2024.<br><br>^ "Radon". World Health Organization. Retrieved 12 April 2024.<br><br>^ Manisalidis I, Stavropoulou E, Stavropoulos A, Bezirtzoglou E (2020). "Environmental and Health Impacts of Air Pollution: A Review". Front Public Health. 8: 14. doi:10.3389/fpubh.2020.00014. PMC 7044178. PMID 32154200.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)<br><br>^ Perera F (23 December 2017). "Pollution from Fossil-Fuel Combustion is the Leading Environmental Threat to Global Pediatric Health and Equity: Solutions Exist". International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 15 (1): 16. doi:10.3390/ijerph15010016. ISSN 1660-4601. PMC 5800116. PMID 29295510.<br><br>^ "Mapping methane emissions on a global scale". ESA. Archived from the original on 3 February 2022.<br><br>^ "Climate change: Satellites map huge methane plumes from oil and gas". BBC News. 4 February 2022. Retrieved 16 March 2022.<br><br>^ "Cracking down on methane 'ultra emitters' is a quick way to combat climate change, researchers find". The Washington Post. Retrieved 16 March 2022.<br><br>^ Lauvaux T, Giron C, Mazzolini M, d'Aspremont A, Duren R, Cusworth D, et al. (4 February 2022). "Global assessment of oil and gas methane ultra-emitters". Science. 375 (6580): 557–561. arXiv:2105.06387. Bibcode:2022Sci...375..557L. doi:10.1126/science.abj4351. ISSN 0036-8075. PMID 35113691. S2CID 246530897.<br><br>^ Rentschler J, Leonova N (2023). "Global air pollution exposure and poverty". Nature Communications. 14 (1): 4432. Bibcode:2023NatCo..14.4432R. doi:10.1038/s41467-023-39797-4. PMC 10363163. PMID 37481598.<br><br>^ Pennise D, Smith K. "Biomass Pollution Basics" (PDF). World Health Organization. Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 July 2012.<br><br>^ "Indoor air pollution and household energy". WHO and UNEP. 2011.<br><br>^ Hawkes N (22 May 2015). "Air pollution in UK: the public health problem that won't go away". BMJ. 350 (may22 1): h2757. doi:10.1136/bmj.h2757. PMID 26001592. S2CID 40717317.<br><br>^ "Wood burning heaters and your health - Fact sheets". www.health.nsw.gov.au.<br><br>^ Tsiodra I, Grivas G, Tavernaraki K, Bougiatioti A, Apostolaki M, Paraskevopoulou D, et al. (7 December 2021). "Annual exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in urban environments linked to wintertime wood-burning episodes". Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics. 21 (23): 17865–17883. Bibcode:2021ACP....2117865T. doi:10.5194/acp-21-17865-2021. ISSN 1680-7316. S2CID 245103794.<br><br>^ Nace T. "China Shuts Down Tens Of Thousands Of Factories In Widespread Pollution Crackdown". Forbes. Retrieved 16 June 2022. ... it is estimated that 40 percent of all China's factories have been shut down at some point in order to be inspected... [and] over 80,000 factories have been hit with fines and criminal offenses as a result of their emissions.<br><br>^ Huo H, Zhang Q, Guan D, Su X, Zhao H, He K (16 December 2014). "Examining Air Pollution in China Using Production- And Consumption-Based Emissions Accounting Approaches". Environmental Science & Technology. 48 (24): 14139–14147. Bibcode:2014EnST...4814139H. doi:10.1021/es503959t. ISSN 0013-936X. PMID 25401750.<br><br>^ Huo H, Zhang Q, Guan D, Su X, Zhao H, He K (16 December 2014). "Examining Air Pollution in China Using Production- And Consumption-Based Emissions Accounting Approaches". Environmental Science & Technology. 48 (24): 14139–14147. Bibcode:2014EnST...4814139H. doi:10.1021/es503959t. ISSN 0013-936X. PMID 25401750.<br><br>^ "EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook 2019".<br><br>^ "Particulate Matter (PM), US EPA". 19 April 2016.<br><br>^ "Health crisis: Up to a billion tons of waste potentially burned in the open every year". phys.org. Retrieved 13 February 2021.<br><br>^ Cook E, Velis CA (6 January 2021). "Global Review on Safer End of Engineered Life". Global Review on Safer End of Engineered Life. Retrieved 13 February 2021.<br><br>^ "Combustion Pollutants in Your Home - Guidelines". California Air Resources Board. Retrieved 16 June 2022. "... most furnaces, wood stoves, fireplaces, gas water heaters, and gas clothes dryers, usually vent (exhaust) the combustion pollutants directly to the outdoors. However, if the vent system is not properly designed, installed, and maintained, indoor pollutants can build up quickly inside the home.<br><br>^ "Overview of Air Pollution from Transportation". US Environmental Protection Agency. 15 December 2021. Retrieved 16 June 2022.<br><br>^ Ryan RG, Marais EA, Balhatchet CJ, Eastham SD (June 2022). "Impact of Rocket Launch and Space Debris Air Pollutant Emissions on Stratospheric Ozone and Global Climate". Earth's Future. 10 (6): e2021EF002612. Bibcode:2022EaFut..1002612R. doi:10.1029/2021EF002612. ISSN 2328-4277. PMC 9287058. PMID 35865359.<br><br>^ Yeung J. "Microplastics in our air 'spiral the globe' in a cycle of pollution, study finds". CNN. Retrieved 4 August 2022.<br><br>^ Wang J, Wu Q, Liu J, Yang H, Yin M, Chen S, et al. (2019). "Vehicle emission and atmospheric pollution in China: problems, progress, and prospects". PeerJ. 7: e6932. doi:10.7717/peerj.6932. PMC 6526014. PMID 31143547.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)<br><br>^ Air Quality Expert Group (2004). Nitrogen Dioxide in the United Kingdom (PDF). Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. Retrieved 12 April 2024.<br><br>^ Aggarwal P, Jain S (2015). "Impact of air pollutants from surface transport sources on human health: A modeling and epidemiological approach". Environ Int. 83: 146–57. Bibcode:2015EnInt..83..146A. doi:10.1016/j.envint.2015.06.010. PMID 26142107.<br><br>^ "NASA GISS: NASA News & Feature Releases:Road Transportation Emerges as Key Driver of Warming". www.giss.nasa.gov. Retrieved 4 August 2022.<br><br>^ "Car Emissions & Global Warming | Union of Concerned Scientists". www.ucsusa.org. Retrieved 4 August 2022.<br><br>^ "NASA's AIRS Maps Carbon Monoxide from Brazil Fires". NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). Retrieved 4 August 2022.<br><br>^ Harper AR, Doerr SH, Santin C, Froyd CA, Sinnadurai P (15 May 2018). "Prescribed fire and its impacts on ecosystem services in the UK". Science of the Total Environment. 624: 691–703. Bibcode:2018ScTEn.624..691H. doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.12.161. ISSN 0048-9697. PMID 29272838.<br><br>^ George Neary D, McMichael Leonard J (8 April 2020), Missiakô Kindomihou V (ed.), "Effects of Fire on Grassland Soils and Water: A Review", Grasses and Grassland Aspects, IntechOpen, doi:10.5772/intechopen.90747, ISBN 978-1-78984-949-3, S2CID 213578405, retrieved 7 June 2022<br><br>^ Husseini R, Aboah DT, Issifu H (1 March 2020). "Fire control systems in forest reserves: An assessment of three forest districts in the Northern region, Ghana". Scientific African. 7: e00245. Bibcode:2020SciAf...700245H. doi:10.1016/j.sciaf.2019.e00245. ISSN 2468-2276. S2CID 213400214.<br><br>^ Reyes O, Casal M (November 2004). "Effects of forest fire ash on germination and early growth of four pinus species". Plant Ecology. 175 (1): 81–89. Bibcode:2004PlEco.175...81R. doi:10.1023/B:VEGE.0000048089.25497.0c. ISSN 1385-0237. S2CID 20388177.<br><br>^ Chatterjee R (15 February 2018). "Wall Paint, Perfumes and Cleaning Agents Are Polluting Our Air". NPR. Retrieved 12 March 2019.<br><br>^ "Basic Information about Landfill Gas". US Environmental Protection Agency. 15 April 2016. Retrieved 9 August 2022. Landfill gas (LFG) is a natural byproduct of the decomposition of organic material in landfills. LFG is composed of roughly 50 percent methane...<br><br>^ "Open waste burning prevention | Climate & Clean Air Coalition". www.ccacoalition.org. 7 September 2023. Retrieved 22 December 2023.<br><br>^ Hafemeister D (2016), "Biological and Chemical Weapons", Nuclear Proliferation and Terrorism in the Post-9/11 World, Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 337–351, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-25367-1_15, ISBN 978-3-319-25365-7, PMC 7123302<br><br>^ Sun F, Dai Y, Yu X (December 2017). "Air pollution, food production and food security: A review from the perspective of food system". Journal of Integrative Agriculture. 16 (12): 2945–2962. doi:10.1016/S2095-3119(17)61814-8.<br><br>^ a b Lelieveld J, Evans JS, Fnais M, Giannadaki D, Pozzer A (September 2015). "The contribution of outdoor air pollution sources to premature mortality on a global scale". Nature. 525 (7569): 367–371. Bibcode:2015Natur.525..367L. doi:10.1038/nature15371. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 26381985. S2CID 4460927. Whereas in much of the USA and in a few other countries emissions from traffic and power generation are important, in eastern USA, Europe, Russia and East Asia agricultural emissions make the largest relative contribution to PM2.5, with the estimate of overall health impact depending on assumptions regarding particle toxicity.<br><br>^ Diep F (31 January 2018). "California's Farms Are an Even Larger Source of Air Pollution Than We Thought". Pacific Standard. Retrieved 2 February 2018.<br><br>^ Nemecek T, Poore J (1 June 2018). "Reducing food's environmental impacts through producers and consumers". Science. 360 (6392): 987–992. Bibcode:2018Sci...360..987P. doi:10.1126/science.aaq0216. ISSN 0036-8075. PMID 29853680. S2CID 206664954.<br><br>^ "Education Data, Visualizations & Graphics on particulate pollution". www.cleanairresources.com. Archived from the original on 20 March 2019. Retrieved 20 March 2019.<br><br>^ Goldstein AH, Koven CD, Heald CL, Fung IY (5 May 2009). "Biogenic carbon and anthropogenic pollutants combine to form a cooling haze over the southeastern United States". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 106 (22): 8835–40. Bibcode:2009PNAS..106.8835G. doi:10.1073/pnas.0904128106. PMC 2690056. PMID 19451635.<br><br>^ Fischetti M (2014). "Trees That Pollute". Scientific American. 310 (6): 14. Bibcode:2014SciAm.310f..14F. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0614-14. PMID 25004561.<br><br>^ "Volcanic Pollution |". Retrieved 27 February 2022.<br><br>^ "Air Pollution Emissions". US EPA. 2016. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ Environment and Climate Change Canada (14 June 2010). "Air pollutant emissions". Canada.ca. Retrieved 7 June 2022.<br><br>^ Manisalidis I, Stavropoulou E, Stavropoulos A, Bezirtzoglou E (20 February 2020). "Environmental and Health Impacts of Air Pollution: A Review". Frontiers in Public Health. 8: 14. doi:10.3389/fpubh.2020.00014. ISSN 2296-2565. PMC 7044178. PMID 32154200.<br><br>^ "AP 42, Volume I". US Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original on 24 September 2010. Retrieved 29 August 2010.
