# Query `11`

## Original Question

*Are clouds a solid, liquid, or gas?

I have been looking online and they are often described ambiguously as a "mass". For instance, from NASA:

A cloud is a mass of water drops or ice crystals suspended in the atmosphere. Clouds form when water condenses in the sky. The condensation lets us see the water vapor. There are many different types of clouds. Clouds are an important part of Earth’s weather and climate.

Since they describe it as a vapor, that makes me think it is indeed a gas. But condensation is by definition the change of state from a gas to a liquid. So that makes it sound like it could be a liquid, or contain liquid droplets rather than "freely moving" molecules that typically make up a gas.

But at another web site, which doesn't seem all that authoritative, it says that clouds are a solid, liquid, and gas simultaneously!

A cloud is a liquid, a solid, and a gas.

That does seem intriguing. If I remember correctly, liquids are supposed to be incompressible, and clouds are likely compressible.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.3333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2500
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.7500
recall_100: 0.7500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1952
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3253
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3253
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3992
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3992
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0833
map_cut_10: 0.1548
map_cut_25: 0.1548
map_cut_50: 0.1745
map_cut_100: 0.1745
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) wind_movement/wind_formation3_3.txt
> cool as they move upward. When moist air masses begin to cool, water vapor begins to condense. Condensation is the physical change of a gas into a liquid. Water vapor can condense to form small water droplets visible as clouds in Earth’s atmosphere.<br> <br>Within a cloud there is a balance between water vapor condensing to form drop liquid water droplets and liquid water droplets evaporating to form water vapor. This process can be seen in the changing shapes of clouds. If condensation exceeds evaporation, precipitation tends to occur. Precipitation is the fall of

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) fog_bow/Fog3_5.txt
> topography, and wind conditions. In turn, fog affects many human activities, such as shipping, travel, and warfare.<br>Fog appears when water vapor (water in its gaseous form) condenses. During condensation, molecules of water vapor combine to make tiny water droplets that hang in the air. Sea fog, which shows up near bodies of saline water, is formed as water vapor condenses on bits of salt. Fog is similar to, but less transparent than, mist.<br><br><br>Definition[edit]<br>The term fog is typically distinguished from the more generic term cloud

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) composition_of_cloud/Cloud_condensation_nuclei1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>Cloud condensation nuclei (CCNs), also known as cloud seeds, are small particles typically 0.2 µm, or one hundredth the size of a cloud droplet. CCNs are a unique subset of aerosols in the atmosphere on which water vapour condenses. This can affect the radiative properties of clouds and the overall atmosphere. Water requires a non-gaseous surface to make the transition from a vapour to a liquid; this process is called condensation.<br>In the atmosphere of Earth, this surface presents itself as tiny solid or liquid particles called CCNs. When no CCNs are present, water vapour can be supercooled at about −13 °C (9 °F) for 5–6 hours before droplets spontaneously form. This is the basis of the cloud chamber for detecting subatomic particles.<br>The concept of CCN is used in cloud seeding, which tries to encourage rainfall by seeding the air with condensation nuclei. It has further been suggested that creating such nuclei could be used for marine cloud brightening, a climate engineering technique. Some natural environmental phenomena, such as the one proposed in the CLAW hypothesis also arise from the interaction between naturally produced CCNs and cloud formation.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>A halo (from Ancient Greek  ἅλως (hálōs) 'threshing floor, disk') is an optical phenomenon produced by light (typically from the Sun or Moon) interacting with ice crystals suspended in the atmosphere. Halos can have many forms, ranging from colored or white rings to arcs and spots in the sky. Many of these appear near the Sun or Moon, but others occur elsewhere or even in the opposite part of the sky. Among the best known halo types are the circular halo (properly called the 22° halo), light pillars, and sun dogs, but many others occur; some are fairly common while others are extremely rare.<br>The ice crystals responsible for halos are typically suspended in cirrus or cirrostratus clouds in the upper troposphere (5–10 km (3.1–6.2 mi)), but in cold weather they can also float near the ground, in which case they are referred to as diamond dust. The particular shape and orientation of the crystals are responsible for the type of halo observed. Light is reflected and refracted by the ice crystals and may split into colors because of dispersion. The crystals behave like prisms and mirrors, refracting and reflecting light between their faces, sending shafts of light in particular directions.<br>Atmospheric optical phenomena like halos were part of weather lore, which was an empirical means of weather forecasting before meteorology was developed. They often do indicate that rain will fall within the next 24 hours, since the cirrostratus clouds that cause them can signify an approaching frontal system.<br>Other common types of optical phenomena involving water droplets rather than ice crystals include the glory and the rainbow.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) contrial_formation/the_science_of_contrails5_9.txt
> How are contrails different from other clouds?<br>Contrails are "human-induced" clouds since they are formed by water vapor condensing and freezing on particles from airplane exhaust. Contrails are always made of ice particles, due to the very cold temperatures at high altitude. Other types of clouds can be formed by water vapor that condenses on particles which are present in the atmosphere due to many sources, such as from volcanoes or dust storms, not specifically from aircraft exhaust. Those clouds are sometimes made of water droplets, and sometimes ice crystals, depending on the temperature where they form.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, composition_of_cloud/Cloud_condensation_nuclei4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Relation with phytoplankton and climate[edit]<br><br>Main article: CLAW hypothesis<br>A 1987 article in Nature found that global climate may occur in a feedback loop due to the relationship between CCNs, the temperature regulating behaviors of clouds, and oceanic phytoplankton. This phenomenon has since been referred to as the CLAW hypothesis, after the authors of the original study. A common CCN over oceans is sulphate aerosols. These aerosols are formed from the dimethyl sulfide (DMS) produced by algae found in seawater. Large algal blooms, observed to have increased in areas such as the South China Sea, can contribute a substantial amount of DMS into their surrounding atmospheres, leading to increased cloud formation. As the activity of phytoplankton is temperature reliant, this negative-feedback loop can act as a form of climate regulation.<br>The Revenge of Gaia, written by James Lovelock, an author of the 1987 study, proposes an alternative relationship between ocean temperatures and phytoplankton population size. This has been named the anti-CLAW hypothesis In this scenario, the stratification of oceans causes nutrient-rich cold water to become trapped under warmer water, where sunlight for photosynthesis is most abundant. This inhibits the growth of phytoplankton, resulting in the decrease in their population, and the sulfate CCNs they produce, with increasing temperature. This interaction thus lowers cloud albedo through decreasing CCN-induced cloud formations and increases the solar radiation allowed to reach ocean surfaces, resulting in a positive-feedback loop.<br>Volcanic ash and gas emissions from Alaska's Pavlof Volcano —NASA

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 2, composition_of_cloud/Cloud_condensation_nuclei1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>Cloud condensation nuclei (CCNs), also known as cloud seeds, are small particles typically 0.2 µm, or one hundredth the size of a cloud droplet. CCNs are a unique subset of aerosols in the atmosphere on which water vapour condenses. This can affect the radiative properties of clouds and the overall atmosphere. Water requires a non-gaseous surface to make the transition from a vapour to a liquid; this process is called condensation.<br>In the atmosphere of Earth, this surface presents itself as tiny solid or liquid particles called CCNs. When no CCNs are present, water vapour can be supercooled at about −13 °C (9 °F) for 5–6 hours before droplets spontaneously form. This is the basis of the cloud chamber for detecting subatomic particles.<br>The concept of CCN is used in cloud seeding, which tries to encourage rainfall by seeding the air with condensation nuclei. It has further been suggested that creating such nuclei could be used for marine cloud brightening, a climate engineering technique. Some natural environmental phenomena, such as the one proposed in the CLAW hypothesis also arise from the interaction between naturally produced CCNs and cloud formation.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 37, composition_of_cloud/Cloud_condensation_nuclei3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Applications[edit]<br>Cloud seeding[edit]<br>Main article: Cloud seeding<br>Cloud seeding is a process by which small particulates are added to the atmosphere to induce cloud formation and precipitation. This has been done by dispersing salts using aerial or ground-based methods.  Other methods have been researched, like using laser pulses to excite molecules in the atmosphere, and more recently, in 2021, electric charge emission using drones. The effectiveness of these methods is not consistent. Many studies did not notice a statistically significant difference in precipitation while others have. Cloud seeding may also occur from natural processes such as forest fires, which release small particles into the atmosphere that can act as nuclei.<br>Marine cloud brightening[edit]<br><br>Main article: Marine cloud brightening<br>Marine cloud brightening is a climate engineering technique which involves the injection of small particles into clouds to enhance their reflectivity, or albedo. The motive behind this technique is to control the amount of sunlight allowed to reach ocean surfaces in hopes of lowering surface temperatures through radiative forcing. Many methods involve the creation of small droplets of seawater to deliver sea salt particles into overlying clouds.<br>Complications may arise when reactive chlorine and bromine from sea salt react with existing molecules in the atmosphere. They have been shown to reduce ozone in the atmosphere; the same effect reduces hydroxide which correlates to the increased longevity of methane, a greenhouse gas.<br>Phytoplankton bloom in the North Sea and the Skagerrak – NASA

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 6, composition_of_cloud/Cloud_condensation_nuclei2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Properties[edit]<br>Size[edit]<br>A typical raindrop is about 2 mm in diameter, a typical cloud droplet is on the order of 0.02 mm, and a typical cloud condensation nucleus (aerosol) is on the order of 0.0001 mm or 0.1 µm or greater in diameter. The number of cloud condensation nuclei in the air can be measured at ranges between around 100 to 1000 per cm. The total mass of CCNs injected into the atmosphere has been estimated at 2×10 kg over a year's time.<br>Composition[edit]<br>There are many different types of atmospheric particulates that can act as CCN. The particles may be composed of dust or clay, soot or black carbon from grassland or forest fires, sea salt from ocean wave spray, soot from factory smokestacks or internal combustion engines, sulfate from volcanic activity, phytoplankton or the oxidation of sulfur dioxide and secondary organic matter formed by the oxidation of volatile organic compounds. The ability of these different types of particles to form cloud droplets varies according to their size and also their exact composition, as the hygroscopic properties of these different constituents are very different. Sulfate and sea salt, for instance, readily absorb water whereas soot, organic carbon, and mineral particles do not. This is made even more complicated by the fact that many of the chemical species may be mixed within the particles (in particular the sulfate and organic carbon). Additionally, while some particles (such as soot and minerals) do not make very good CCN, they do act as ice nuclei in colder parts of the atmosphere.<br>Abundance[edit]<br>The number and type of CCNs can affect the precipitation amount, lifetimes, and radiative properties of clouds and their lifetimes. Ultimately, this has an influence on climate change. Modeling research led by Marcia Baker revealed that sources and sinks are balanced by coagulation and coalescence which leads to stable levels of CCNs in the atmosphere. There is also speculation that solar variation may affect cloud properties via CCNs, and hence affect climate.<br>Airborne Measurements[edit]<br>The airborne measurements of  these individual mixed aerosols that can form CCN at SGP site were performed using a research aircraft. CCN study by Kulkarni et al 2023 describes the complexity in modeling CCN concentrations.
