# Query `110`

## Original Question

*I am a lay person in meteorology, maybe this is not the right place for my question, but I would like to ask then.

My question is simple: is there a website or institute that has integrated statistics on forecasting the occurrence of rainbows in different countries around the world?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0049
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) life_on_mars/Life_on_Mars_(British_TV_series)3_14.txt
> a short teaser before a monologue in which Sam repeats, as part of the moving imagery of the title sequence:<br><br><br>My name is Sam Tyler. I had an accident and I woke up in 1973. Am I mad, in a coma, or back in time? Whatever's happened, it's like I've landed on a different planet. Now, maybe if I can work out the reason, I can get home.<br><br><br>This questioning is a central plot device throughout the series, displaying both the character's and the audience's uncertainty about what has happened.<br>Throughout the course of Life

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) -999_celsius_degree/absolute_hot4_136.txt
> , or about minus 460°F. You can't get colder than that; it would be like trying to go south from the South Pole. Is there a corresponding maximum possible temperature?</p<pWell, the answer, depending on which theoretical physicist you ask, is yes, no, or maybe.</p<br><p<iHuh?</i you ask. Yeah, that's how I felt. And the question doesn't just mess with the minds of physics dummies like me. Several physicists begged off of trying to answer it, referring me to colleagues. Even

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) -999_celsius_degree/absolute_hot5_237.txt
> be like trying to go south from the South Pole. Is there a corresponding maximum possible temperature?\u003c/p\u003e\u003cp\u003eWell, the answer, depending on which theoretical physicist you ask, is yes, no, or maybe.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003e\u003ci\u003eHuh?\u003c/i\u003e you ask. Yeah, that's how I felt. And the question doesn't just mess with the minds of

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) 22_halo/halo_season_33_117.txt
> with these kinds of things. You know markets live forward but understood backwards, so you do that. But all my predisposition tells me to remain invested, do not get scared by the volatility and I have not been for 30 years, I have always remained almost fully invested in Indian markets, so I do not get scared with the volatility. The best is yet to come. <br<brMaybe India cannot double in three years, maybe it can double in four years’ time, but it is still the best place for a young Indian to be. I am not a young Indian anymore

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) 22_halo/halo_season_33_110.txt
> because I am a stock picker. I try to look bottom. Having said that, would I want to remain fully invested? Corrections have started, maybe it is coming, maybe it is right there. I think yes, I do not see any signs that I normally would see in a top. We do see some size in the reckless capital expansion, the QIPs, the response to public issues, something out there but for the first time, we are also getting three crore new investors coming in. <br<brEvery morning the market opens and Rs 1,500 crore is ready


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/frm_rxml4.txt
> 48 degrees (relative to the normal).<br>Therefore, if light strikes the back of a raindrop at an<br>angle greater than 48 degrees,<br>it will be reflected back. If the angle<br>is smaller than 48 degrees, the light will simply pass on through.<br><br>The reflected light is <br>refracted as it exits the<br>drop. Violet light (bending the most) emerges<br>at an angle of 40 degrees relative to the incoming <br>sunlight <br>while red light <br>(bending the least) exits the drop <br>at an angle of 42 degrees. Other<br>colors of the rainbow leave a raindrop at <br>angles somewhere in between.<br>According to Descartes' calculations using<br>laws of optics, the three stage refraction-reflection-refraction pattern that<br>light undergoes when passing through a raindrop<br>produces a concentration of outgoing<br>rays along a line that is 42 degrees above the head of an observer's shadow.<br>This concentration of light rays is the rainbow that we see.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Since only one color of light is observed from each<br>raindrop,<br>an incredible<br>number of raindrops is required to produce the magnificent <br>spectrum of colors<br>that are characteristic of a rainbow.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>water droplets

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/formatn_htm2.txt
> Copyright 1999 Rebecca McDowell.<br>Figure 1: <br>Basic diagram showing formation of rainbow. <br><br>Note:  <br>Angles not to scale.  <br><br>The formation of a rainbow involves a series of physical<br>phenomena - reflection, refraction, dispersion and total internal reflection.  <br>The occurence of each of these is due to the interaction<br>of light with air and water and the boundaries between them.  <br> <br>Enlarged view of diagram.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>The Steps Involed in the Process<br>Figure 2:  Ray digram - light through raindrop

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/formatn_htm5.txt
> Total Internal Reflection will occur. A rainbow will<br>only be seen if this happens, otherwise the light will continue out the<br>other side of the raindrop and continue to move away from the would-be<br>viewer.<br> <br><br>6. Light is refracted again as<br>it leaves raindrop.<br>Just as the light changed speed as it entered the<br>raindrop, its speed changes again as it leaves. Here, the light is moving<br>from a more dense medium (water) to a less dense medium (air). As it does<br>so, it speeds up and its path bends. In this case the path of the light<br>rays bends away from  the normal line. This is another example<br>of refraction.<br><br>7. Colours are further dispersed.<br>As the rays are refracted once again, the various<br>wavelengths are effected to different extents. The overall result of this<br>is increased separation of the component colours of white light. This is<br>Dispersion.<br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br> Return to top of page

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/formatn_htm3.txt
> Copyright 1999 Rebecca McDowell.<br>1. <br>Light from Sun strikes raindrop  <br>2.  Some<br>of the light is reflected  <br>3.  The rest<br>of the light is refracted  <br>4.  Light<br>splits into component colours  <br>5.  Reflected<br>at rear of raindrop (TIR)  <br>6.  Refracted<br>again as it leaves raindrop <br>7.  Colours<br>are further dispersed <br><br>Click on the links above for<br>more detail on ech step.<br><br><br>  <br><br><br><br><br><br>1. Light from sun strikes raindrop.<br>White light<br>from the Sun has to hit the raindrops at a certain angle before<br>a rainbow is possible. It is best if the sun is fairly low in the sky such<br>as dawn and late afternoon. The angle is important as it effect the direct<br>the light travels after it hits the raindrops and that determines whether<br>or not we will see a rainbow.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/frm_rxml3.txt
> an arc of concentric colored bands<br><br><br><br><br><br>Photograph by: <br>Holle<br>A rainbow is an arc of concentric colored bands that develops when sunlight<br>interacts with rain drops.<br><br><br>A rainbow occurs when rain is falling in one portion of the sky<br>and the sun is shining in another. For a rainbow to be seen, the <br>sun must be behind an observer who is facing falling rain. <br><br><br><br>Animation by:<br>Hall<br>Sunlight is<br>refracted<br>as it enters a raindrop, which causes the different wavelengths (colors) of<br>visible light to separate.<br>Longer wavelengths of light (red) are bent the least<br>while shorter wavelengths (violet) are bent the most.<br><br><br><br>If the angle between the refracted<br>light and the normal to the drop <br>surface is greater than a critical angle, <br>the light reflects off the back of the<br>drop.<br><br><br><br><br><br>The critical angle for water (which would apply to raindrops) is

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/formatn_htm4.txt
> 2. Some of the light is reflected.<br>It is possible to see through a glass window but,<br>at the same time, see your own reflection. This is because the window both<br>transmits and reflects light. Water can do this too - that is why you can<br>see a reflection in a pool of clean water and also see the bottom.<br>When light from the sun hits a water droplet,<br>some of the light is reflected. This light will obey the Law<br>of Reflection.<br> <br><br>3. The rest of the light is refracted.<br>The light that is not refracted crosses the air-water<br>interface (boundary layer). When this happens it slows down because the<br>water is more dense than the air. The reduction of speed cause the path<br>of the light to bend - this is called refraction.<br>In this case the path of the light rays bends toward<br>the normal line.<br> <br><br>4. White light splits into component<br>colours.<br>White light is made up of a spectrum of colours,<br>each with its own wavelength. Different wavelengths travel at different<br>speeds and when they encounter a change to medium that is more dense or<br>less dense, the speeds are efected by different amounts. Hence, the colours<br>separate. This phenomenon is know as Dispersion.<br> <br><br>5. Light is reflected at rear<br>of raindrop (TIR).<br>At the rear of the raindrop, the light hits the water-to-air<br>interface. If the angle of incidence is greater than the critical angle,

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, forcasting_rainbow/frm_rxml5.txt
> Terms for using<br>data resources.<br><br>CD-ROM available. <br><br>Credits and Acknowledgments for<br>WW2010.<br>Department of Atmospheric<br>Sciences (DAS) <br><br><br><br>atthe University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>primary rainbow
