# Query `111`

## Original Question

*I would like to know what would happen with the atmosphere of Venus when it gets tidally locked, i.e. when one side would perpetually face the Sun.
Probably a thermal low would be at the subsolar region then.

At the surface Venus has an atmospheric pressure of 92 atm. and a temperature of 462⁰
 C.

Are there General Circulation Models or Global Climate Models that can handle such input parameters ?

If so, are there GCM users (groups, universities etc.) who could run a tidally locked Venus simulation ?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2184
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2184
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0833
map_cut_25: 0.0833
map_cut_50: 0.0833
map_cut_100: 0.0833
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) atmosphere_venus/Venus2_77.txt
> 92 Venusian solar days.[147] To an observer on the surface of Venus, the Sun would rise in the west and set in the east,[147] although Venus's opaque clouds prevent observing the Sun from the planet's surface.[148]<br>Venus may have formed from the solar nebula with a different rotation period and obliquity, reaching its current state because of chaotic spin changes caused by planetary perturbations and tidal effects on its dense atmosphere, a change that would have occurred over the course of billions of years. The rotation period of Venus may represent an equilibrium state

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) humidity_and_rain/Atmospheric_pressure4_0.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Surface pressure [edit]<br><br>This section is about the atmospheric surface pressure. For other uses, see Surface pressure (disambiguation).<br>Surface pressure is the atmospheric pressure at a location on Earth's surface (terrain and oceans).  It is directly proportional to the mass of air over that location.<br>For numerical reasons, atmospheric models such as general circulation models (GCMs) usually predict the nondimensional logarithm of surface pressure.<br>The average value of surface pressure on Earth is 985 hPa. This is in contrast to mean

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) moon_collided_with_earth/Giant-impact_hypothesis8.txt
> part8 -------------------<br>Possible origin of Theia[edit]<br>One suggested pathway for the impact as viewed from the direction of Earth's south pole (not to scale).<br>In 2004, Princeton University mathematician Edward Belbruno and astrophysicist J. Richard Gott III proposed that Theia coalesced at the L4 or L5 Lagrangian point relative to Earth (in about the same orbit and about 60° ahead or behind), similar to a trojan asteroid. Two-dimensional computer models suggest that the stability of Theia's proposed trojan orbit would have been affected when its growing mass exceeded a threshold of approximately 10% of Earth's mass (the mass of Mars). In this scenario, gravitational perturbations by planetesimals caused Theia to depart from its stable Lagrangian location, and subsequent interactions with proto-Earth led to a collision between the two bodies.<br>In 2008, evidence was presented that suggests that the collision might have occurred later than the accepted value of 4.53 Gya, at approximately 4.48 Gya. A 2014 comparison of computer simulations with elemental abundance measurements in Earth's mantle indicated that the collision occurred approximately 95 My after the formation of the Solar System.<br>It has been suggested that other significant objects might have been created by the impact, which could have remained in orbit between Earth and the Moon, stuck in Lagrangian points. Such objects might have stayed within the Earth–Moon system for as long as 100 million years, until the gravitational tugs of other planets destabilised the system enough to free the objects. A study published in 2011 suggested that a subsequent collision between the Moon and one of these smaller bodies caused the notable differences in physical characteristics between the two hemispheres of the Moon. This collision, simulations have supported, would have been at a low enough velocity so as not to form a crater; instead, the material from the smaller body would have spread out across the Moon (in what would become its far side), adding a thick layer of highlands crust. The resulting mass irregularities would subsequently produce a gravity gradient that resulted in tidal locking of the Moon so that today, only the near side remains visible from Earth. However, mapping by the GRAIL mission has ruled out this scenario.<br>In 2019, a team at the University of Münster reported that the molybdenum isotopic composition in Earth's primitive mantle originates from the outer Solar System, hinting at the source of water on Earth. One possible explanation is that Theia originated in the outer Solar System.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) formation_of_earth/Giant_impact_hypothesis3_43.txt
> spread out across the Moon (in what would become its far side), adding a thick layer of highlands crust.[63] The resulting mass irregularities would subsequently produce a gravity gradient that resulted in tidal locking of the Moon so that today, only the near side remains visible from Earth. However, mapping by the GRAIL mission has ruled out this scenario.[citation needed]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) reflecting_sunlights/sarasota_advocates_reflect_on_hurricane_ians_health_impact_one_year_later4_3.txt
> ” she said.<br><br><br>Neal offers a supportive ear to clients who need to talk through their pain and works with them on breathing exercises and other tactics to better handle stress.<br><br><br>“You know what's happened has happened, you can't change it, but what you think about it you can, and that can help you move forward, so that's kind of what I do,” she said.<br><br><br>The one-year anniversary is going to be a tough time for many, Neal said. She worries especially about those connected to the nearly 150 people who died from the


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, atmosphere_venus/geophysical_and_astrophysical_fluid_dynamics2.txt
> Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ResearchOur researchOur research groupsOur research in actionResearch funding supportSummer internships for undergraduatesStudyUndergraduatesPostgraduatesEngageFor alumniFor businessFor schoolsFor the public<br><br><br><br><br>Menu<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid DynamicsResearch groupResearch themeExoplanets and planetary physicsPlasma physicsSub departmentAtmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics<br><br><br><br><br>AboutPeoplePublicationsTutorials in Geophysical Fluid Dynamics<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>Fluid dynamics underpins our understanding of a huge number of phenomena in geophysics and astrophysics, ranging from small, dusty vortices generated by the wind in your garden up to convection in the interiors and atmospheres of stars and planets or the self-gravitating motions of giant clouds of gas and dust that permeate the galaxy from which stars are borne. Our research embraces various approaches to studying the physics underlying these phenomena, including mathematical theory, numerical simulations and even laboratory experiments.<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>Rotating and/or stratified flows<br><br>From a physicist's perspective, the atmospheres, oceans and fluid interiors of any planet are special examples of rotating fluid systems, with or without density stratification, in which motions are generated by the action of buoyancy, surface stresses and other forces. In our research we are seeking to understand some of the fundamental principles which underly the dynamics, formation of waves, and instabilities of rotating fluids, when subject to mechanical stirring or shearing, differential heating and cooling or other forces.<br>In our laboratory work we make extensive use of the concept of dynamical similarity, in which parameters such as the size, rotation rate or density contrast imposed on a system can be chosen to give essentially the same balance of forces on a laboratory scale as e.g. on the scale of an entire planet! This enables us to reproduce phenomena such as baroclinic cyclone and anticyclone weather systems, familiar from weather maps, in a rotating tank only 20-50 cm across. This also helps when applying results and insights from laboratory experiments to understanding phenomena observed in the atmospheres or oceans of the Earth or other planets.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 5, atmosphere_venus/nasa_climate_modeling_suggests_venus_may_have_been_habitable5.txt
> MissionsSearch All NASA MissionsA to Z List of MissionsUpcoming Launches and LandingsSpaceships and RocketsCommunicating with MissionsArtemisJames Webb Space TelescopeHubble Space TelescopeInternational Space StationOSIRIS-RExHumans in SpaceWhy Go to SpaceAstronautsCommercial SpaceDestinationsSpaceships and RocketsLiving in SpaceEarth &amp; ClimateExplore Earth ScienceClimate ChangeEarth, Our PlanetEarth Science in ActionEarth MultimediaEarth DataEarth Science ResearchersAbout NASANASA's ImpactsCenters and FacilitiesDirectoratesOrganizationsPeople of NASACareersInternshipsOur HistoryDoing Business with NASAGet InvolvedContactLearning ResourcesFor Kids and StudentsFor EducatorsFor Colleges and UniversitiesFor ProfessionalsScience for EveryoneSpace Samples for LearningRequest an Exhibit or SpeakerSTEM Engagement at NASAAeronauticsScience in the AirNASA AircraftFlight InnovationSupersonic FlightAir Traffic SolutionsGreen Aviation TechDrones & YouTechnologyTechnology Transfer & SpinoffsSpace Travel TechnologyTechnology Living in SpaceManufacturing and MaterialsRoboticsScience InstrumentsComputingThe UniverseExoplanetsThe Search for Life in the UniverseStarsGalaxiesBlack HolesThe Big BangDark Matter &amp; Dark EnergyThe Solar SystemThe SunMercuryVenusEarthThe MoonMarsJupiterSaturnUranusNeptunePluto &amp; Dwarf PlanetsAsteroids, Comets &amp; MeteorsThe Kuiper BeltThe Oort CloudSkywatchingEspañolCienciaAeronáuticaCiencias TerrestresSistema SolarUniversoScienceAll NASA ScienceEarth SciencePlanetary ScienceAstrophysics & Space ScienceThe Sun & HeliophysicsBiological & Physical SciencesLunar ScienceCitizen ScienceAstromaterialsAeronautics ResearchHuman Space Travel ResearchExploreSearchSubmitNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+4 min readNASA climate modeling suggests Venus may have been habitableNASA Science Editorial TeamAug 10, 2016ArticleObservations suggest Venus may have had water oceans in its distant past. A land-ocean pattern like that above was used in a climate model to show how storm clouds could have shielded ancient Venus from strong sunlight and made the planet habitable.NASA.Venus may have had a shallow liquid-water ocean and habitable surface temperatures for up to 2 billion years of its early history, according to computer modeling of the planet’s ancient climate by scientists at NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) in New York.The findings, published this week in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, were obtained with a model similar to the type used to predict future climate change on Earth.“Many of the same tools we use to model climate change on Earth can be adapted to study climates on other planets, both past and present,” said Michael Way, a researcher at GISS and the paper’s lead author. “These results show ancient Venus may have been a very different place than it is today.”Venus today is a hellish world. It has a crushing carbon dioxide atmosphere 90 times as thick as Earth’s. There is almost no water vapor. Temperatures reach 864 degrees Fahrenheit (462 degrees Celsius) at its surface.Scientists long have theorized that Venus formed out of ingredients similar to Earth’s, but followed a different evolutionary path. Measurements by NASA’s Pioneer mission to Venus in the 1980s first suggested Venus originally may have had an ocean. However, Venus is closer to the sun than Earth and receives far more sunlight. As a result, the planet’s early ocean evaporated, water-vapor molecules were broken apart by ultraviolet radiation, and hydrogen escaped to space. With no water left on the surface, carbon dioxide built up in the atmosphere, leading to a so-called runaway greenhouse effect that created present conditions.Previous studies have shown that how fast a planet spins on its axis affects whether it has a habitable climate. A solar day on Venus is 117 Earth days (a sidereal day on Venus is 243 Earth days). Until recently, it was assumed that a thick atmosphere like that of modern Venus was required for the planet to have today’s slow rotation rate. However, newer research has shown that a thin atmosphere like that of modern Earth could have produced the same result. That means an ancient Venus with an Earth-like atmosphere could have had the same rotation rate it has today.Another factor that impacts a planet’s climate is topography. The GISS team postulated ancient Venus had more dry land overall than Earth, especially in the tropics. That limits the amount of water evaporated from the oceans and, as a result, the greenhouse effect by water vapor. This type of surface appears ideal for making a planet habitable; there seems to have been enough water to support abundant life, with sufficient land to reduce the planet’s sensitivity to changes from incoming sunlight.Way and his GISS colleagues simulated conditions of a hypothetical early Venus with an atmosphere similar to Earth’s, a day as long as Venus’ current day, and a shallow ocean consistent with early data from the Pioneer spacecraft. The researchers added information about Venus’ topography from radar measurements taken by NASA’s Magellan mission in the 1990s, and filled the lowlands with water, leaving the highlands exposed as Venusian continents. The study also factored in an ancient sun that was up to 30 percent dimmer. Even so, ancient Venus still received about 40 percent more sunlight than Earth does today.“In the GISS model’s simulation, Venus’ slow spin exposes its dayside to the sun for almost two months at a time,” co-author and fellow GISS scientist Anthony Del Genio said. “This warms the surface and produces rain that creates a thick layer of clouds, which acts like an umbrella to shield the surface from much of the solar heating. The result is mean climate temperatures that are actually a few degrees cooler than Earth’s today.”The research was done as part of NASA’s Planetary Science Astrobiology program through the Nexus for Exoplanet System Science (NExSS) program, which seeks to accelerate the search for life on planets orbiting other stars, or exoplanets, by combining insights from the fields of astrophysics, planetary science, heliophysics, and Earth science. The findings have direct implications for future NASA missions, such as the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite and James Webb Space Telescope, which will try to detect possible habitable planets and characterize their atmospheres.Related linksRead the paper in Geophysical Research LettersNASA GISS' NExSS activitiesNASA GISS websiteShareDetailsLast UpdatedMar 18, 2024EditorNASA Science Editorial Team Related TermsCarbon CycleClimate ChangeExplore More3 min readNASA Data Helps Beavers Build Back StreamsHumans aren’t the only mammals working to mitigate the effects of climate change in the Western United States. People there are also enlisting the aid of nature’s most prolific engineers – beavers. Using NASA-provided grants, two open-source programs from Boise State University in Idaho and Utah State University in Logan are making it possible for […]Article2 days ago 5 min readNASA Selects New Aircraft-Driven Studies of Earth and Climate ChangeArticle2 days ago 7 min readClimate Change ResearchScience in Space: April 2024 Everyone on Earth is touched by the effects of climate change, such as hotter temperatures, shifts in rain patterns, and sea level rise. Collecting climate data helps communities better plan for these changes and build more resilience to them. The International Space Station, one of dozens of NASA missions contributing […]Article3 days ago Keep ExploringDiscover More Topics From NASAExplore Earth ScienceEarth Science in ActionEarth Science DataFacts About EarthReturn to topThe National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.About NASA's MissionJoin UsHomeNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+MissionsHumans in SpaceEarth & ClimateThe Solar SystemThe UniverseScienceAeronauticsTechnologyLearning ResourcesAbout NASANASA en EspañolFollow NASAMore NASA Social AccountsNASA NewslettersSitemapFor MediaPrivacy PolicyFOIANo FEAR ActOffice of the IGBudget & Annual ReportsAgency Financial ReportsContact NASAAccessibilityPage Last Updated:last monthPage Editor:SMD Content EditorsResponsible NASA Official for Science:Dana Bolles
