# Query `112`

## Original Question

*Researchers who are involved in study of life on Mars are saying that there might be multicellular life present on Mars, today or in the past. Which traces, markers or environments on Mars could support this hypothesis and how it will be investigated?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3869
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.2500
map_cut_10: 0.2500
map_cut_25: 0.2500
map_cut_50: 0.2500
map_cut_100: 0.2500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) solid_inner_core/Future_of_Earth7_1.txt
> civilisations from arising from non-living matter<br>History of Earth – Development of planet Earth from its formation to the present day<br>Lava planet – Terrestrial planet with the surface covered by molten lava<br>Medea hypothesis – Multicellular life may be self-destructive or suicidal<br>Moving Earth – Planetary engineering scenario<br>Planetary engineering – Influencing a planet's global environments<br>Planetary habitability – Known extent to which a planet is suitable for life<br>Rare Earth hypothesis – Hypothesis that complex extraterrestrial life is improbable and extremely rare<br>Space and

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) life_on_mars/mars_2020_perseverance5.txt
> MissionsSearch All NASA MissionsA to Z List of MissionsUpcoming Launches and LandingsSpaceships and RocketsCommunicating with MissionsArtemisJames Webb Space TelescopeHubble Space TelescopeInternational Space StationOSIRIS-RExHumans in SpaceWhy Go to SpaceAstronautsCommercial SpaceDestinationsSpaceships and RocketsLiving in SpaceEarth &amp; ClimateExplore Earth ScienceClimate ChangeEarth, Our PlanetEarth Science in ActionEarth MultimediaEarth DataEarth Science ResearchersAbout NASANASA's ImpactsCenters and FacilitiesDirectoratesOrganizationsPeople of NASACareersInternshipsOur HistoryDoing Business with NASAGet InvolvedContactLearning ResourcesFor Kids and StudentsFor EducatorsFor Colleges and UniversitiesFor ProfessionalsScience for EveryoneSpace Samples for LearningRequest an Exhibit or SpeakerSTEM Engagement at NASAAeronauticsScience in the AirNASA AircraftFlight InnovationSupersonic FlightAir Traffic SolutionsGreen Aviation TechDrones & YouTechnologyTechnology Transfer & SpinoffsSpace Travel TechnologyTechnology Living in SpaceManufacturing and MaterialsRoboticsScience InstrumentsComputingThe UniverseExoplanetsThe Search for Life in the UniverseStarsGalaxiesBlack HolesThe Big BangDark Matter &amp; Dark EnergyThe Solar SystemThe SunMercuryVenusEarthThe MoonMarsJupiterSaturnUranusNeptunePluto &amp; Dwarf PlanetsAsteroids, Comets &amp; MeteorsThe Kuiper BeltThe Oort CloudSkywatchingEspañolCienciaAeronáuticaCiencias TerrestresSistema SolarUniversoScienceAll NASA ScienceEarth SciencePlanetary ScienceAstrophysics & Space ScienceThe Sun & HeliophysicsBiological & Physical SciencesLunar ScienceCitizen ScienceAstromaterialsAeronautics ResearchHuman Space Travel ResearchExploreSearchSubmitNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+PerseveranceMission OverviewRover ComponentsWhere is Perseverance?Ingenuity Mars HelicopterScienceOverviewScience ObjectivesScience Instruments Science Highlights Science UpdatesNews and FeaturesMultimediaPerseverance Raw ImagesMars ResourcesMars ExplorationAll PlanetsMercuryVenusEarthMarsJupiterSaturnUranusNeptunePluto & Dwarf PlanetsExplore This SectionPerseveranceScienceNews and FeaturesMultimediaMars ExplorationAll PlanetsMars 2020: Perseverance RoverNASA’s Mars Perseverance rover will seek signs of ancient life and collects samples of rock and regolith for possible Earth return.active MissionWhere is Perseverance?Mars Rock SamplesScienceThe Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover searches for signs of ancient microbial life, to advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars. The rover is collecting core samples of Martian rock and soil (broken rock and soil), for potential pickup by a future mission that would bring them to Earth for detailed study.TypeRoverLaunch / LandingJuly 30, 2020 / Feb. 18, 2021TargetJezero Crater, MarsObjectiveSeek signs of ancient life and collect samples of rock and regolith  for possible Earth return.Unable to render the provided sourceExperience Earth, our solar system, nearby asteroids, the universe, and the spacecraft exploring them with immersive real-time 3D web-based apps for Mac, PC and mobile devices. NASA/JPL-Caltech/VTADMeet PerseveranceUnable to render the provided sourceLanding Site: Jezero CraterNASA chose Jezero Crater as the landing site for the Perseverance rover. Scientists believe the area was once flooded with water and was home to an ancient river delta. The process of landing site selection involved a combination of mission team members and scientists from around the world, who carefully examined more than 60 candidate locations on the Red Planet. After the exhaustive five-year study of potential sites, each with its own unique characteristics and appeal, Jezero rose to the top.Jezero Crater tells a story of the on-again, off-again nature of the wet past of Mars. More than 3.5 billion years ago, river channels spilled over the crater wall and created a lake. Scientists see evidence that water carried clay minerals from the surrounding area into the crater lake. Conceivably, microbial life could have lived in Jezero during one or more of these wet times. If so, signs of their remains might be found in lakebed or shoreline sediments. Scientists will study how the region formed and evolved, seek signs of past life, and collect samples of Mars rock and soil that might preserve these signs.Jezero Crater is 28 miles (45 kilometers) wide, and is located on the western edge of a flat plain called Isidis Planitia, which lies just north of the Martian equator. The landing site is about 2,300 miles (3,700 kilometers) from Curiosity's landing site in Gale Crater.This image shows the remains of an ancient delta in Mars' Jezero Crater, which NASA's Perseverance Mars rover will explore for signs of fossilized microbial life. ESA/DLR/FU-BerlinObjectiveThe Perseverance rover will search for signs of ancient microbial life, which will advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars.ScienceThe rover’s mission has four science objectives: Studying Mars' Habitability, Seeking Signs of Past Microbial Life, Collecting and Caching Samples, and Preparing for Future Human Missions.Raw ImagesView raw images sent back by Perseverance from its explorations on Mars.ResourcesVisit the one-stop-shop for all Perseverance media.Featured VideoMars Rock Samples: The Stories They Could TellNASA's Mars Perseverance rover is building a unique rock collection, which also includes samples of Mars atmosphere and loose surface material. These samples record the history of the Jezero Crater landing site, and may even preserve signs of ancient life. Learn more about these precious samples, which Mars Sample Return could deliver to Earth for detailed study in the future.Learn MoreMars Ingenuity HelicopterStrapped to the rover's belly for the journey to Mars was a technology demonstration — the Mars Helicopter, Ingenuity, which completed 72 historic flights making it the first aircraft to achieve powered, controlled flight on another planet.Learn MoreThis enhanced color image of NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter was taken by the Mastcam-Z instrument aboard Perseverance on April 16, 2023<br>NASA/JPL-Caltech/ASU/MSSSPerseverance Rover StoriesExplore All Perseverance Rover StoriesArticle6 min readNASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter Team Says Goodbye … for NowArticle3 min readComet Geyser: Perseverance’s 21st Rock Core6 min readRock Sampled by NASA’s Perseverance Embodies Why Rover Came to MarsArticle3 weeks ago5 min readUnlocking the Martian Skies – Using Ingenuity as a Martian Testbed for Future RotorcraftArticle3 weeks ago3 min readPerseverance Pays off When Studying the Martian AtmosphereArticle1 month agoKeep ExploringDiscover More Topics From NASAJames Webb Space TelescopePerseverance RoverParker Solar ProbeJunoReturn to topThe National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.About NASA's MissionJoin UsHomeNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+MissionsHumans in SpaceEarth & ClimateThe Solar SystemThe UniverseScienceAeronauticsTechnologyLearning ResourcesAbout NASANASA en EspañolFollow NASAMore NASA Social AccountsNASA NewslettersSitemapFor MediaPrivacy PolicyFOIANo FEAR ActOffice of the IGBudget & Annual ReportsAgency Financial ReportsContact NASAAccessibilityPage Last Updated:3 days agoPage Editor:SMD Content EditorsResponsible NASA Official for Science:Dana Bolles

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) life_on_mars/Mars2_118.txt
> "Mars has become a kind of mythic arena onto which we have projected our Earthly hopes and fears."[239]<br>The depiction of Mars in fiction has been stimulated by its dramatic red color and by nineteenth-century scientific speculations that its surface conditions might support not just life but intelligent life.[292] This gave way to many science fiction stories involving these concepts, such as H. G. Wells's The War of the Worlds, in which Martians seek to escape their dying planet by invading Earth; Ray Bradbury's The Martian Chronicles, in which human explorers accidentally destroy a Martian civilization;

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) moon_collided_with_earth/Giant-impact_hypothesis2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>History[edit]<br>In 1898, George Darwin made the suggestion that Earth and the Moon were once a single body. Darwin's hypothesis was that a molten Moon had been spun from Earth because of centrifugal forces, and this became the dominant academic explanation. Using Newtonian mechanics, he calculated that the Moon had orbited much more closely in the past and was drifting away from Earth. This drifting was later confirmed by American and Soviet experiments, using laser ranging targets placed on the Moon.<br>Nonetheless, Darwin's calculations could not resolve the mechanics required to trace the Moon back to the surface of Earth. In 1946, Reginald Aldworth Daly of Harvard University challenged Darwin's explanation, adjusting it to postulate that the creation of the Moon was caused by an impact rather than centrifugal forces. Little attention was paid to Professor Daly's challenge until a conference on satellites in 1974, during which the idea was reintroduced and later published and discussed in Icarus in 1975 by William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis. Their models suggested that, at the end of the planet formation period, several satellite-sized bodies had formed that could collide with the planets or be captured. They proposed that one of these objects might have collided with Earth, ejecting refractory, volatile-poor dust that could coalesce to form the Moon. This collision could potentially explain the unique geological and geochemical properties of the Moon.<br>A similar approach was taken by Canadian astronomer Alastair G. W. Cameron and American astronomer William R. Ward, who suggested that the Moon was formed by the tangential impact upon Earth of a body the size of Mars. It is hypothesized that most of the outer silicates of the colliding body would be vaporized, whereas a metallic core would not. Hence, most of the collisional material sent into orbit would consist of silicates, leaving the coalescing Moon deficient in iron. The more volatile materials that were emitted during the collision probably would escape the Solar System, whereas silicates would tend to coalesce.<br>Eighteen months prior to an October 1969 conference on lunar origins, Bill Hartmann, Roger Phillips, and Jeff Taylor challenged fellow lunar scientists: "You have eighteen months. Go back to your Apollo data, go back to your computer, and do whatever you have to, but make up your mind. Don't come to our conference unless you have something to say about the Moon's birth." At the 1969 conference at Kona, Hawaii, the giant-impact hypothesis emerged as the most favored hypothesis.<br>Before the conference, there were partisans of the three "traditional" theories, plus a few people who were starting to take the giant impact seriously, and there was a huge apathetic middle who didn't think the debate would ever be resolved. Afterward, there were essentially only two groups: the giant impact camp and the agnostics.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) ocean_continent_divergent_boundary/Plate_tectonics9.txt
> part9 -------------------<br>Other celestial bodies (planets, moons)<br>The appearance of plate tectonics on terrestrial planets is related to planetary mass, with more massive planets than Earth expected to exhibit plate tectonics. Earth may be a borderline case, owing its tectonic activity to abundant water (silica and water form a deep eutectic).<br>Venus<br><br>See also: Geology of Venus<br>Venus shows no evidence of active plate tectonics. There is debatable evidence of active tectonics in the planet's distant past; however, events taking place since then (such as the plausible and generally accepted hypothesis that the Venusian lithosphere has thickened greatly over the course of several hundred million years) has made constraining the course of its geologic record difficult. However, the numerous well-preserved impact craters have been used as a dating method to approximately date the Venusian surface (since there are thus far no known samples of Venusian rock to be dated by more reliable methods). Dates derived are dominantly in the range 500 to 750 million years ago, although ages of up to 1,200 million years ago have been calculated. This research has led to the fairly well accepted hypothesis that Venus has undergone an essentially complete volcanic resurfacing at least once in its distant past, with the last event taking place approximately within the range of estimated surface ages. While the mechanism of such an impressive thermal event remains a debated issue in Venusian geosciences, some scientists are advocates of processes involving plate motion to some extent.<br>One explanation for Venus's lack of plate tectonics is that on Venus temperatures are too high for significant water to be present. Earth's crust is soaked with water, and water plays an important role in the development of shear zones. Plate tectonics requires weak surfaces in the crust along which crustal slices can move, and it may well be that such weakening never took place on Venus because of the absence of water. However, some researchers remain convinced that plate tectonics is or was once active on this planet.<br>Mars<br><br>See also: Geology of Mars<br>Mars is considerably smaller than Earth and Venus, and there is evidence for ice on its surface and in its crust.<br>In the 1990s, it was proposed that Martian Crustal Dichotomy was created by plate tectonic processes. Scientists today disagree, and think that it was created either by upwelling within the Martian mantle that thickened the crust of the Southern Highlands and formed Tharsis or by a giant impact that excavated the Northern Lowlands.<br>Valles Marineris may be a tectonic boundary.<br>Observations made of the magnetic field of Mars by the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft in 1999 showed patterns of magnetic striping discovered on this planet. Some scientists interpreted these as requiring plate tectonic processes, such as seafloor spreading. However, their data failed a "magnetic reversal test", which is used to see if they were formed by flipping polarities of a global magnetic field.<br>Icy satellites<br>Some of the satellites of Jupiter have features that may be related to plate-tectonic style deformation, although the materials and specific mechanisms may be different from plate-tectonic activity on Earth. On 8 September 2014, NASA reported finding evidence of plate tectonics on Europa, a satellite of Jupiter—the first sign of subduction activity on another world other than Earth.<br>Titan, the largest moon of Saturn, was reported to show tectonic activity in images taken by the Huygens probe, which landed on Titan on January 14, 2005.<br>Exoplanets<br>On Earth-sized planets, plate tectonics is more likely if there are oceans of water. However, in 2007, two independent teams of researchers came to opposing conclusions about the likelihood of plate tectonics on larger super-Earths with one team saying that plate tectonics would be episodic or stagnant and the other team saying that plate tectonics is very likely on super-earths even if the planet is dry.<br>Consideration of plate tectonics is a part of the search for extraterrestrial intelligence and extraterrestrial life.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, life_on_mars/sedimentary_signs_of_martian_lakebed5.txt
> 2 min read<br><br>Tech Today: Taking Earth’s Pulse with NASA Satellites<br><br><br><br><br>article<br><br>4 days ago<br><br><br><br>Highlights<br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>6 min read<br><br>Diez maneras en que los estudiantes pueden prepararse para ser astronautas<br><br><br><br><br>article<br><br>4 weeks ago<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>4 min read<br><br>Astronauta de la NASA Marcos Berríos<br><br><br><br><br>article<br><br>2 months ago<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>8 min read<br><br>Resultados científicos revolucionarios en la estación espacial de 2023<br><br><br><br><br>article<br><br>2 months ago<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2 min readSedimentary Signs of a Martian LakebedNASADec 08, 2014   Image Article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>This evenly layered rock photographed by the Mast Camera (Mastcam) on NASA's Curiosity Mars Rover shows a pattern typical of a lake-floor sedimentary deposit not far from where flowing water entered a lake.<br><br><br><br>This evenly layered rock photographed by the Mast Camera (Mastcam) on NASA’s Curiosity Mars Rover shows a pattern typical of a lake-floor sedimentary deposit not far from where flowing water entered a lake.<br>The scene combines multiple frames taken with Mastcam’s right-eye camera on Aug. 7, 2014, during the 712th Martian day, or sol, of Curiosity’s work on Mars. It shows an outcrop at the edge of “Hidden Valley,” seen from the valley floor.  This view spans about 5 feet (1.5 meters) across in the foreground.  The color has been approximately white-balanced to resemble how the scene would appear under daytime lighting conditions on Earth. Figure A is a version with a superimposed scale bar of 50 centimeters (about 20 inches).<br>This is an example of a thick-laminated, evenly-stratified rock type that forms stratigraphically beneath cross-bedded sandstones regarded as ancient river deposits.  These rocks are interpreted to record sedimentation in a lake, as part of or in front of a delta, where plumes of river sediment settled out of the water column and onto the lake floor. <br>NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, a division of the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, manages the Mars Science Laboratory Project for NASA’s Science Mission Directorate, Washington. JPL designed and built the project’s Curiosity rover.  Malin Space Science Systems, San Diego, built and operates the rover’s Mastcam. For more information about Curiosity, visit https://www.nasa.gov/msl and http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/msl.    <br> Unannotated image<br> Related: NASA’s Curiosity Rover Finds Clues to How Water Helped Shape Martian Landscape<br>Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>The National Aeronautics and Space Administration<br>NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.<br><br>About NASA's Mission<br><br><br>Join Us<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Home<br>News & Events<br>Multimedia<br>NASA+<br>Missions<br>Humans in Space<br>Earth & Climate<br>The Solar System<br>The Universe<br>Science<br>Aeronautics<br>Technology<br>Learning Resources<br>About NASA<br>NASA en Español<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Follow NASA<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>More NASA Social Accounts<br>NASA Newsletters<br><br><br><br><br><br>Sitemap<br>For Media<br>Privacy Policy<br>FOIA<br>No FEAR Act<br>Office of the IG<br>Budget & Annual Reports<br>Agency Financial Reports<br>Contact NASA<br>Accessibility<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>									Page Last Updated:								<br><br>								Dec 08, 2014								<br><br><br><br>									Page Editor:								<br><br><br><br><br><br>								Responsible NASA Official:							<br><br>								Abigail Bowman

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 1, life_on_mars/mars_2020_perseverance5.txt
> MissionsSearch All NASA MissionsA to Z List of MissionsUpcoming Launches and LandingsSpaceships and RocketsCommunicating with MissionsArtemisJames Webb Space TelescopeHubble Space TelescopeInternational Space StationOSIRIS-RExHumans in SpaceWhy Go to SpaceAstronautsCommercial SpaceDestinationsSpaceships and RocketsLiving in SpaceEarth &amp; ClimateExplore Earth ScienceClimate ChangeEarth, Our PlanetEarth Science in ActionEarth MultimediaEarth DataEarth Science ResearchersAbout NASANASA's ImpactsCenters and FacilitiesDirectoratesOrganizationsPeople of NASACareersInternshipsOur HistoryDoing Business with NASAGet InvolvedContactLearning ResourcesFor Kids and StudentsFor EducatorsFor Colleges and UniversitiesFor ProfessionalsScience for EveryoneSpace Samples for LearningRequest an Exhibit or SpeakerSTEM Engagement at NASAAeronauticsScience in the AirNASA AircraftFlight InnovationSupersonic FlightAir Traffic SolutionsGreen Aviation TechDrones & YouTechnologyTechnology Transfer & SpinoffsSpace Travel TechnologyTechnology Living in SpaceManufacturing and MaterialsRoboticsScience InstrumentsComputingThe UniverseExoplanetsThe Search for Life in the UniverseStarsGalaxiesBlack HolesThe Big BangDark Matter &amp; Dark EnergyThe Solar SystemThe SunMercuryVenusEarthThe MoonMarsJupiterSaturnUranusNeptunePluto &amp; Dwarf PlanetsAsteroids, Comets &amp; MeteorsThe Kuiper BeltThe Oort CloudSkywatchingEspañolCienciaAeronáuticaCiencias TerrestresSistema SolarUniversoScienceAll NASA ScienceEarth SciencePlanetary ScienceAstrophysics & Space ScienceThe Sun & HeliophysicsBiological & Physical SciencesLunar ScienceCitizen ScienceAstromaterialsAeronautics ResearchHuman Space Travel ResearchExploreSearchSubmitNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+PerseveranceMission OverviewRover ComponentsWhere is Perseverance?Ingenuity Mars HelicopterScienceOverviewScience ObjectivesScience Instruments Science Highlights Science UpdatesNews and FeaturesMultimediaPerseverance Raw ImagesMars ResourcesMars ExplorationAll PlanetsMercuryVenusEarthMarsJupiterSaturnUranusNeptunePluto & Dwarf PlanetsExplore This SectionPerseveranceScienceNews and FeaturesMultimediaMars ExplorationAll PlanetsMars 2020: Perseverance RoverNASA’s Mars Perseverance rover will seek signs of ancient life and collects samples of rock and regolith for possible Earth return.active MissionWhere is Perseverance?Mars Rock SamplesScienceThe Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover searches for signs of ancient microbial life, to advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars. The rover is collecting core samples of Martian rock and soil (broken rock and soil), for potential pickup by a future mission that would bring them to Earth for detailed study.TypeRoverLaunch / LandingJuly 30, 2020 / Feb. 18, 2021TargetJezero Crater, MarsObjectiveSeek signs of ancient life and collect samples of rock and regolith  for possible Earth return.Unable to render the provided sourceExperience Earth, our solar system, nearby asteroids, the universe, and the spacecraft exploring them with immersive real-time 3D web-based apps for Mac, PC and mobile devices. NASA/JPL-Caltech/VTADMeet PerseveranceUnable to render the provided sourceLanding Site: Jezero CraterNASA chose Jezero Crater as the landing site for the Perseverance rover. Scientists believe the area was once flooded with water and was home to an ancient river delta. The process of landing site selection involved a combination of mission team members and scientists from around the world, who carefully examined more than 60 candidate locations on the Red Planet. After the exhaustive five-year study of potential sites, each with its own unique characteristics and appeal, Jezero rose to the top.Jezero Crater tells a story of the on-again, off-again nature of the wet past of Mars. More than 3.5 billion years ago, river channels spilled over the crater wall and created a lake. Scientists see evidence that water carried clay minerals from the surrounding area into the crater lake. Conceivably, microbial life could have lived in Jezero during one or more of these wet times. If so, signs of their remains might be found in lakebed or shoreline sediments. Scientists will study how the region formed and evolved, seek signs of past life, and collect samples of Mars rock and soil that might preserve these signs.Jezero Crater is 28 miles (45 kilometers) wide, and is located on the western edge of a flat plain called Isidis Planitia, which lies just north of the Martian equator. The landing site is about 2,300 miles (3,700 kilometers) from Curiosity's landing site in Gale Crater.This image shows the remains of an ancient delta in Mars' Jezero Crater, which NASA's Perseverance Mars rover will explore for signs of fossilized microbial life. ESA/DLR/FU-BerlinObjectiveThe Perseverance rover will search for signs of ancient microbial life, which will advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars.ScienceThe rover’s mission has four science objectives: Studying Mars' Habitability, Seeking Signs of Past Microbial Life, Collecting and Caching Samples, and Preparing for Future Human Missions.Raw ImagesView raw images sent back by Perseverance from its explorations on Mars.ResourcesVisit the one-stop-shop for all Perseverance media.Featured VideoMars Rock Samples: The Stories They Could TellNASA's Mars Perseverance rover is building a unique rock collection, which also includes samples of Mars atmosphere and loose surface material. These samples record the history of the Jezero Crater landing site, and may even preserve signs of ancient life. Learn more about these precious samples, which Mars Sample Return could deliver to Earth for detailed study in the future.Learn MoreMars Ingenuity HelicopterStrapped to the rover's belly for the journey to Mars was a technology demonstration — the Mars Helicopter, Ingenuity, which completed 72 historic flights making it the first aircraft to achieve powered, controlled flight on another planet.Learn MoreThis enhanced color image of NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter was taken by the Mastcam-Z instrument aboard Perseverance on April 16, 2023<br>NASA/JPL-Caltech/ASU/MSSSPerseverance Rover StoriesExplore All Perseverance Rover StoriesArticle6 min readNASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter Team Says Goodbye … for NowArticle3 min readComet Geyser: Perseverance’s 21st Rock Core6 min readRock Sampled by NASA’s Perseverance Embodies Why Rover Came to MarsArticle3 weeks ago5 min readUnlocking the Martian Skies – Using Ingenuity as a Martian Testbed for Future RotorcraftArticle3 weeks ago3 min readPerseverance Pays off When Studying the Martian AtmosphereArticle1 month agoKeep ExploringDiscover More Topics From NASAJames Webb Space TelescopePerseverance RoverParker Solar ProbeJunoReturn to topThe National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.About NASA's MissionJoin UsHomeNews & EventsMultimediaNASA+MissionsHumans in SpaceEarth & ClimateThe Solar SystemThe UniverseScienceAeronauticsTechnologyLearning ResourcesAbout NASANASA en EspañolFollow NASAMore NASA Social AccountsNASA NewslettersSitemapFor MediaPrivacy PolicyFOIANo FEAR ActOffice of the IGBudget & Annual ReportsAgency Financial ReportsContact NASAAccessibilityPage Last Updated:3 days agoPage Editor:SMD Content EditorsResponsible NASA Official for Science:Dana Bolles
