# Query `113`

## Original Question

*Is there a package for R to plot Schmidt nets, like it is done in geology?

So far, I only know software like Stereonet. However I think it would make a lot of sense to handle these data in R, to have so much more possibilities in calculations and statistics.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.1600
P_50: 0.0800
P_100: 0.0400
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2000
recall_10: 0.2000
recall_25: 0.4000
recall_50: 0.4000
recall_100: 0.4000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3452
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2240
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3236
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3236
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3236
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0900
map_cut_10: 0.0900
map_cut_25: 0.1236
map_cut_50: 0.1236
map_cut_100: 0.1236
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) forcasting_rainbow/Rainbow_(rock_band)4_29.txt
> now it's like everything is getting back to normal but delayed two years. So there is a lot of shows happening. And until it gets completely back to normal, it's gonna happen at least a couple of years. So I think Ritchie is not too much into the idea to make anything so far. And he is focused right now with Blackmore's Night — they released an album recently, I think. There's no plan so far; we were not informed about any plan. So we're just waiting for… With Ritchie, you never know — maybe in a couple of days he

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) schmidt_nets/rfpdf5.txt
> StereoPlot Setup plot extent for stereonet.<br>Description<br>Creates a standardized plot with predetermined extents and margins to used with other stereonet<br>tools.<br>Usage<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Stereonet", new = TRUE, pdf.file)<br>Arguments<br>my.title Title of the stereonet plot.<br>new Logical, if FALSE, new plot will open in active window.<br>pdf.file The filename to plot stereonet as a pdf. If missing, windows() is used.<br>StereoPoint 19<br>Value<br>Sets up a plot for stereographic projections.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoCirc, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoPoint Add line data to stereonet.<br>Description<br>Adds point to stereonet based on the trend and plunge of linear data.<br>Usage<br>StereoPoint(my.az = 90, my.inc = 45,<br>my.color = "black", my.pch = 19,<br>my.size = 0.25, my.label)<br>20 StereoPoint<br>Arguments<br>my.az Lineation trend as an azimuth.<br>my.inc Lineation plunge or inclination.<br>my.color Point color.<br>my.pch pch value. See ?par<br>my.size Size of points. Calls cex(my.size). See ?par<br>my.label Label to add next to point<br>Value<br>Adds point to stereonet based on the trend and plunge of linear data.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoCirc<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoWeb 21<br>StereoWeb Equal area stereonet grid plotter.<br>Description<br>Creates an equal-area net to existing stereographic projection.<br>Usage<br>StereoWeb()<br>Value<br>Plots an equal-area net to existing stereographic projection with 10 degree cells.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoCirc, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>Index<br>∗ classes<br>FRY-class, 7<br>RFPHI-class, 15<br>ElliIn, 2, 4, 5<br>ElliOut, 3, 3<br>EllipAxes, 4<br>ElliView, 5<br>FlinnPlot, 6, 12<br>FRY, 8–11, 15<br>FRY-class, 7<br>FryData, 8, 9–11, 14<br>FryNormData, 8, 8, 10, 11, 14<br>FryObjective, 9<br>FrySelect, 10, 11, 14<br>NadaiPlot, 6, 12<br>ParEx, 8, 9, 13, 14<br>RFPHI, 7, 14<br>RfPhi, 8–11, 14, 16<br>RFPHI-class, 15<br>RfPhiParRead, 14, 16<br>RockFab (RockFab-package), 2<br>RockFab-package, 2<br>StereoCirc, 16, 18–21<br>StereoPlane, 17, 17, 19–21<br>StereoPlot, 17, 18, 18, 20, 21<br>StereoPoint, 17–19, 19, 21<br>StereoWeb, 17–20, 21

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) teten/masduki_teten3_8.txt
> This will take stamina and lots of time, he says, adding hopefully: "I think my children and grandchildren will perhaps benefit from our work."In electing TETEN MASDUKI to receive the 2005 Ramon Magsaysay Award for Public Service, the board of trustees recognizes his challenging Indonesians to expose corruption and claim their right to clean government.<br><br><br><br><br>First and foremost, I would like to thank the Ramon Magsaysay Award Foundation for giving me such an honorable award. It is truly far beyond my imagination. Actually, I believe that what I have done so

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) schmidt_nets/Schmidt_net5_1.txt
> at the far right of the net. The two sectors have the same area on the sphere and the same area on the disk. The angle-distorting property can be seen by examining the grid lines; most of them do not intersect at right angles on the Schmidt net. A single Schmidt net can only represent one hemisphere of the earth; typically a pair of Schmidt nets is used to represent both sides of the globe.<br>It is relatively simple to re-plot a gridded map of the world onto a Schmidt net if the azimuth is chosen to be the junction of the equator

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) schmidt_nets/rfpdf4.txt
> Value<br>Function creates a standardized PDF file containing an RfPhi plot, sectional Rs ellipse, Chi square<br>plot, and a list of calculated properties. These properties are also returned via an object of class<br>RFPHI.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Dunnet, D. (1969). A technique of finite strain analysis using elliptical particles.<br>Ramsay, J. (1969). Folding and fracturing of rocks.<br>Lisle, R. (1985). Geological strain analysis, a manual for the rf/phi method.<br>Mulchrone, K. and P. Meere (2001). A windows program for the analysis of tectonic strain using<br>deformed elliptical markers.<br>Mookerjee, M. and S. Nickleach (2011). Three-dimensional strain analysis using Mathematica.<br>See Also<br>FryData, FryNormData, FrySelect<br>RFPHI-class 15<br>RFPHI-class Class "RFPHI"<br>Description<br>Class to hold basic RfPhi data.<br>Objects from the Class<br>Objects can be created by calls of the form new("RFPHI", ...).<br>Slots<br>sectionName: Object of class "character" defining the section ID string.<br>vectorMean: Object of class "numeric" containing the calculated vector mean of object long axes.<br>harmonicMean: Object of class "numeric" containing the harmonic mean of object axial ratios.<br>strainRatio: Object of class "numeric" containing the calculated sectional strain or fabric ratio.<br>indexSymmetry: Object of class "numeric" containing the index of symmetry based on the vector<br>and harmonic means.<br>sampleSize: Object of class "numeric" containing the number of objects used in the analysis.<br>meanObjectArea: Object of class "numeric" containing the average object area based on fitted<br>object ellipses.<br>rsAxes: Object of class "numeric" of length two containing the axial lengths of the calculated<br>sectional strain or fabric ellipse.<br>chiSquare: Object of class "data.frame" containing the results of the chi squared statistical test<br>for uniform distribution at each increment of anti-strain.<br>Methods<br>No methods defined with class "RFPHI" in the signature.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>FRY<br>Examples<br>showClass("RFPHI")<br>16 StereoCirc<br>RfPhiParRead Read manual data collected from the RfPhi method.<br>Description<br>This function creates a data frame object typically constructed from sectional image data when<br>manual Rf/Phi data is used.<br>Usage<br>RfPhiParRead(rfphi.file)<br>Arguments<br>rfphi.file A tab delineated text file containing the length of the long axis, short axis, and<br>the orientation (rake) of objects measured in the field using a convention of rake<br>measured positive clockwise from the direction of strike following right hand<br>rule. Text file header must be used and should be defined as follows: l.axis<br>s.axis phi<br>Value<br>Returns a data frame object for use as input in RfPhi.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>RfPhi<br>StereoCirc Primitive circle plotter for stereonet.<br>Description<br>This function simply adds a primitive circle to an existing plot and is used in coordination with<br>other stereonet plotting tools.<br>Usage<br>StereoCirc(n.seg = 360)<br>Arguments<br>n.seg The number of segments to use in circle plot. Defaults to 360.<br>StereoPlane 17<br>Value<br>Adds primitive circle to open plot.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoPlane Add plane data to stereonet.<br>Description<br>Function adds a great circle to existing plot based on the strike and dip of a plane.<br>Usage<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = 0, my.dip = 45, my.color = "black")<br>Arguments<br>my.strike The strike of the plane to plot as a great circle.<br>my.dip The dip of the plane to plot as a great circle.<br>my.color The line color used in the plot.<br>18 StereoPlot<br>Value<br>Adds great circle of plane to existing plot.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoCirc, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 16, schmidt_nets/rfpdf3.txt
> n pie.pts to the origin within each wedge is saved. Used in initial ellipse fit.<br>10 FryObjective<br>expansion An expansion factor to be multiplied to the central void diameter estimate in<br>order to properly scale Fry plots.<br>pie.pts The number of nearest points to the plot origin that are selected in each wedge<br>bin.<br>section.name The name of the sectional analysis.<br>ave.piepts Logical, if TRUE, the coordinates of n pie.pts selected from each wedge bin<br>are averaged prior to least squares ellipse fitting.<br>norm Logical, if TRUE, a normalized Fry method is used.<br>Details<br>This function creates either a normalized or standard Fry plot data frame from the centroids of<br>object traces and attempts to objectively fit an ellipse to the central void. This is done initially<br>by determining the nearest n pie.pts to the origin within each angular bin of length pie.step in<br>degrees. A deterministic least squares method of ellipse fitting (modified code written by Michael<br>Bedward) is applied to these points in order to make an initial estimate of the central void. This<br>initial estimate will likely underestimate the Rs ratio because a bias of more points near the perigees<br>of the central void and fewer points near the apogees. The bins are modified based on the estimate<br>ellipse so that so that a smaller angular distance is used near the apogees and a larger angular<br>distance near the perigees. Points are selected from these bins are previously described and a new<br>ellipse is fitted. This procedure is repeated n.pass times to return the parameters of the objectively<br>fitted central void ellipse.<br>Value<br>Returns an object of class FRY.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Deterministic least squares method of ellipse fitting function is modified from code written by<br>Michael Bedward.<br>Halir, Radim, and Jan Flusser. "Numerically stable direct least squares fitting of ellipses." Proc. 6th<br>International Conference in Central Europe on Computer Graphics and Visualization. WSCG. Vol.<br>98. 1998.<br>Fry, N. (1979) Random point distributions and strain measurement in rocks.<br>Erslev, E. (1988) Normalized center-to-center strain analysis of packed aggregates.<br>See Also<br>RfPhi, FryData, FryNormData,FrySelect<br>FrySelect 11<br>FrySelect Interactive central void selection tool for the Fry and normalized Fry<br>techniques.<br>Description<br>Creates an interactive Fry or normalized plot that enables a user to select the parameters of the<br>central void.<br>Usage<br>FrySelect(fry.data, max.dim, out.file, normalized = FALSE, select = TRUE)<br>Arguments<br>fry.data An object of class FRY returned from FryData or FryNormData.<br>max.dim Fry plot diameter.<br>out.file Path to desired PDF file for results.<br>normalized Logical, if TRUE, a normalized Fry plot is made.<br>select Logical, if TRUE, manual selection is required. If FALSE, an object of FRY will<br>be plotted.<br>Value<br>Function produces a standardized PDF file containing the results of the sectional analysis and returns an object of class FRY with all parameters of the sectional analyses.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Fry, N. (1979) Random point distributions and strain measurement in rocks.<br>Erslev, E. (1988) Normalized center-to-center strain analysis of packed aggregates.<br>See Also<br>RfPhi<br>12 NadaiPlot<br>NadaiPlot Nadai plotting tool for fabric and strain data.<br>Description<br>Function creates a standardized Nadai plot to better display calculated octahedral shear strain and<br>Lode parameters of fabric and strain ellipsoids.<br>Usage<br>NadaiPlot(oss = 1, lp = 0, out.file,<br>oss.int = 1, max.oss = 3,<br>plot.title = "Nadai plot", labs)<br>Arguments<br>oss Octahedral shear strain.<br>lp Lode parameter.<br>out.file Path to PDF file for plotting.<br>oss.int Interval used between arcs of equal octahedral shear strain in plot.<br>max.oss Maximum octahedral shear strain to be plotted at top of graph (used to scale the<br>plot). Value must be an integer.<br>plot.title Title of the plot.<br>labs Vector of labels of length equal to the length of oss and lp to add to plot.<br>Value<br>Creates PDF of Nadai plot.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Nadai, A. (1963) Theory of fracture and flow of solids.<br>See Also<br>FlinnPlot<br>ParEx 13<br>ParEx Parameter extraction tool to obtain location, eccentricity, and orientation of objects from sectional image traces.<br>Description<br>Function reads in an image file as accepted by the readImage function from the EBImage package<br>and uses routines therein to obtain location, eccentricity, and orientation data.<br>Usage<br>ParEx(img.file, out.file, section.title)<br>Arguments<br>img.file Path to image file of sectional object traces.<br>out.file Path of PDF file to plot fitted object ellipses.<br>section.title Title of PDF plot.<br>Value<br>Function creates a PDF plot of fitted ellipses and returns a data frame object containing the parameters of each object.<br>Note<br>All image analysis routines are obtained from the EBImage package<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Pau, G., A. Oles, M. Smith, O. Sklyar, and W. Huber. (2013) EBImage: Image processing toolbox<br>for R.<br>14 RfPhi<br>RfPhi Determine Rs and corresponding parameters following the RfPhi<br>method<br>Description<br>This function applies the RfPhi technique to object data following a Chi squared statistical test for<br>the most uniform distribution of object orientations.<br>Usage<br>RfPhi(my.par, out.file, section.title, weight.vec = TRUE, unit.area = "px")<br>Arguments<br>my.par A data frame object returned by ParEx or RfPhiParRead.<br>out.file Path to PDF file where a standardized plot of the sectional results is made.<br>section.title Title of the sectional analysis.<br>weight.vec Logical, if TRUE an eccentricity weighting is applied such that more elliptical objects influence the vector mean stronger than objects with more circular<br>shapes.<br>unit.area The unit of measure in which the mean object area is calculated. If, for example,<br>the input data is returned from ParEx the unit is in pixels; however, if manual<br>data is used, the unit used to measure axial lengths should be used.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rf3.txt
> </tr<br><tr<br><tdNeedsCompilation:</td<br><tdno</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdCRAN&nbsp;checks:</td<br><td<a href="../../checks/check_results_RockFab.html"<span class="CRAN"RockFab results</span</a</td<br></tr<br></tbody</table<br><h4Documentation:</h4<br><table<br><tbody<tr<br><td Reference&nbsp;manual: </td<br><td <a href="RockFab.pdf" <span class="CRAN" RockFab.pdf </span </a </td<br></tr<br></tbody</table

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 1, schmidt_nets/rfpdf5.txt
> StereoPlot Setup plot extent for stereonet.<br>Description<br>Creates a standardized plot with predetermined extents and margins to used with other stereonet<br>tools.<br>Usage<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Stereonet", new = TRUE, pdf.file)<br>Arguments<br>my.title Title of the stereonet plot.<br>new Logical, if FALSE, new plot will open in active window.<br>pdf.file The filename to plot stereonet as a pdf. If missing, windows() is used.<br>StereoPoint 19<br>Value<br>Sets up a plot for stereographic projections.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoCirc, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoPoint Add line data to stereonet.<br>Description<br>Adds point to stereonet based on the trend and plunge of linear data.<br>Usage<br>StereoPoint(my.az = 90, my.inc = 45,<br>my.color = "black", my.pch = 19,<br>my.size = 0.25, my.label)<br>20 StereoPoint<br>Arguments<br>my.az Lineation trend as an azimuth.<br>my.inc Lineation plunge or inclination.<br>my.color Point color.<br>my.pch pch value. See ?par<br>my.size Size of points. Calls cex(my.size). See ?par<br>my.label Label to add next to point<br>Value<br>Adds point to stereonet based on the trend and plunge of linear data.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoCirc<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoWeb 21<br>StereoWeb Equal area stereonet grid plotter.<br>Description<br>Creates an equal-area net to existing stereographic projection.<br>Usage<br>StereoWeb()<br>Value<br>Plots an equal-area net to existing stereographic projection with 10 degree cells.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoCirc, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>Index<br>∗ classes<br>FRY-class, 7<br>RFPHI-class, 15<br>ElliIn, 2, 4, 5<br>ElliOut, 3, 3<br>EllipAxes, 4<br>ElliView, 5<br>FlinnPlot, 6, 12<br>FRY, 8–11, 15<br>FRY-class, 7<br>FryData, 8, 9–11, 14<br>FryNormData, 8, 8, 10, 11, 14<br>FryObjective, 9<br>FrySelect, 10, 11, 14<br>NadaiPlot, 6, 12<br>ParEx, 8, 9, 13, 14<br>RFPHI, 7, 14<br>RfPhi, 8–11, 14, 16<br>RFPHI-class, 15<br>RfPhiParRead, 14, 16<br>RockFab (RockFab-package), 2<br>RockFab-package, 2<br>StereoCirc, 16, 18–21<br>StereoPlane, 17, 17, 19–21<br>StereoPlot, 17, 18, 18, 20, 21<br>StereoPoint, 17–19, 19, 21<br>StereoWeb, 17–20, 21

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rf2.txt
> </tr<br><tr<br><tdPublished:</td<br><td2022-06-23</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdAuthor:</td<br><tdJeffrey R. Webber</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdMaintainer:</td<br><tdJeffrey R. Webber  &lt;jwebber at geo.umass.edu&gt;</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdLicense:</td<br><td<a href="../../licenses/GPL-2"<span class="CRAN"GPL-2</span</a | <a href="../../licenses/GPL-3"<span class="CRAN"GPL-3</span</a [expanded from: GPL]</td<br></tr

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rfpdf2.txt
> and opens an rgl device to interactively view the result.<br>Usage<br>ElliView(elli.dat, out.file, obj.res = 3)<br>Arguments<br>elli.dat Data frame object returned from ElliIn.<br>out.file PLY file to save ellipsoid object to.<br>obj.res Number of divisions to apply to spherical mesh. Larger numbers better approximate the ellipsoid surface but at the expense of file size and render time.<br>Value<br>PLY 3D object file.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>ElliIn<br>6 FlinnPlot<br>FlinnPlot Function to plot a linear Flinn diagram from octahedral shear strain<br>and Lode parameters of ellipsoids.<br>Description<br>Function produces a standardized linear Flinn diagram from the octahedral shear strains and Lode<br>parameters of fitted ellipsoids.<br>Usage<br>FlinnPlot(oss = 1, lp = 0, out.file, max.k = 5,<br>plot.title = "Flinn diagram", labs)<br>Arguments<br>oss A vector of octahedral shear strain values.<br>lp A vector of Lode parameters<br>out.file Path to PDF file for plotting.<br>max.k Maximum x and y plotting limits. Either X/Y or Y/Z. Default 5 is good for<br>moderate strains. Higher strains may need larger values.<br>plot.title Title of the plot.<br>labs Vector of labels of length equal to the length of oss and lp to add to plot.<br>Value<br>Creates a PDF of Flinn diagram.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Flinn, Derek. "On the deformation of the Funzie conglomerate, Fetlar, Shetland." The Journal of<br>Geology (1956): 480-505.<br>See Also<br>NadaiPlot<br>FRY-class 7<br>FRY-class Class "FRY"<br>Description<br>A class to hold data from sectional Fry analyses.<br>Objects from the Class<br>Objects can be created by calls of the form new("FRY", ...).<br>Slots<br>sectionName: Object of class "character" defining the section ID string.<br>vectorMean: Object of class "numeric" for the calculated calculated central void rake.<br>strainRatio: Object of class "numeric" for calculated strain ratio.<br>sampleSize: Object of class "numeric" containing the number of objects used in sectional analysis.<br>rsAxes: Object of class "numeric" with length of two containing the major and minor axial lengths<br>of central void.<br>meanObjectArea: Object of class "numeric" the average object area.<br>fryParams: Object of class "data.frame" containing fry point coordinates, angle from origin,<br>and distance from origin.<br>voidScale: Object of class "numeric" containing the distance from origin plot should be scaled.<br>Methods<br>No methods defined with class "FRY" in the signature.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>RFPHI<br>Examples<br>showClass("FRY")<br>8 FryNormData<br>FryData Determine Fry points and scale to central void region.<br>Description<br>Function takes locations of object centroids and calculates the parameters required to execute an<br>interactive Fry plot. This function also determines a scale parameter that aids in data reduction.<br>Usage<br>FryData(object.data, pie.step = 5, expansion = 2, section.name)<br>Arguments<br>object.data Data frame object returned from ParEx.<br>pie.step Angular distance in degrees as a multiple of 180. This is used to divide the<br>fry plot into n wedge shaped regions of distance pie.step where the closest<br>point to the origin within each wedge is saved and the largest of these values is<br>returned. This provides an estimate of the central void diameter.<br>expansion An expansion factor to be multiplied to the central void diameter estimate in<br>order to properly scale Fry plots.<br>section.name The name of the sectional analysis.<br>Value<br>Returns an object of class FRY.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>FryNormData,RfPhi<br>FryNormData Determine normalized Fry points and scale to central void region.<br>Description<br>Function takes locations of object centroids and calculates the parameters required to execute an<br>interactive Fry plot. This function also determines a scale parameter that aids in data reduction.<br>Usage<br>FryNormData(object.data, pie.step = 5, expansion = 2, section.name)<br>FryObjective 9<br>Arguments<br>object.data Data frame object returned from ParEx.<br>pie.step Angular distance in degrees as a multiple of 180. This is used to divide the<br>fry plot into n wedge shaped regions of distance pie.step where the closest<br>point to the origin within each wedge is saved and the largest of these values is<br>returned. This provides an estimate of the central void diameter.<br>expansion An expansion factor to be multiplied to the central void diameter estimate in<br>order to properly scale Fry plots.<br>section.name The name of the sectional analysis.<br>Value<br>Returns an object of class FRY.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>FryData, RfPhi<br>FryObjective Objective ellipse fitting to central void.<br>Description<br>Function selects nearest points to Fry plot origin in angular wedges and fits an ellipse to these points<br>using a deterministic least squares method. The wedges are iteratively modified from the resultant<br>ellipse to better define selection bins that are narrower near the apogee of the central void and wider<br>near the perigee.<br>Usage<br>FryObjective(object.data, n.pass = 15, pie.step = 12,<br>expansion = 1.5, pie.pts = 1, section.name, ave.piepts = FALSE,<br>norm = TRUE)<br>Arguments<br>object.data Data frame object returned from ParEx.<br>n.pass Number of ellipse fitting iterations.<br>pie.step Angular distance in degrees as a multiple of 360. This is initially used to divide<br>the fry plot into n wedge shaped regions of distance pie.step where the closest

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rf1.txt
> <body<br><div class="container"<br><h2RockFab: Rock Fabric and Strain Analysis Tools</h2<br><pProvides functions to complete three-dimensional rock fabric and strain analyses following the Rf Phi, Fry, and normalized Fry methods. Also allows for plotting of results and interactive 3D visualization functionality.</p<br><table<br><tbody<tr<br><tdVersion:</td<br><td1.2.1</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdDepends:</td<br><tdmethods</td<br></tr<br><tr<br><tdImports:</td<br><td<a href="../rgl/index.html"<span class="CRAN"rgl</span</a, <a href="https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/EBImage.html" target="_top"<span class="BioC"EBImage</span</a</td<br></tr

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked 24, schmidt_nets/rfpdf1.txt
> Package ‘RockFab’<br>October 12, 2022<br>Type Package<br>Title Rock Fabric and Strain Analysis Tools<br>Version 1.2.1<br>Date 2014-01-14<br>Author Jeffrey R. Webber<br>Maintainer Jeffrey R. Webber <jwebber@geo.umass.edu<br>Description Provides functions to complete three-dimensional rock fabric and strain analyses following the Rf Phi, Fry, and normalized Fry methods. Also allows for plotting of results and interactive 3D visualization functionality.<br>License GPL<br>Imports rgl, EBImage<br>Depends methods<br>NeedsCompilation no<br>Repository CRAN<br>Date/Publication 2022-06-23 07:18:46 UTC<br>R topics documented:<br>RockFab-package . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2<br>ElliIn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2<br>ElliOut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3<br>EllipAxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4<br>ElliView . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5<br>FlinnPlot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6<br>FRY-class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7<br>FryData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8<br>FryNormData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8<br>FryObjective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9<br>FrySelect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11<br>NadaiPlot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12<br>ParEx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13<br>RfPhi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14<br>1<br>2 ElliIn<br>RFPHI-class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15<br>RfPhiParRead . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16<br>StereoCirc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16<br>StereoPlane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17<br>StereoPlot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18<br>StereoPoint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19<br>StereoWeb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21<br>Index 22<br>RockFab-package Rock fabric and strain analysis tools.<br>Description<br>Provides functions to complete three-dimensional rock fabric and strain analyses following the Rf<br>Phi, Fry, and normalized Fry methods. Also allows for plotting of results and interactive 3D visualization functionality.<br>Details<br>Package: RockFab<br>Type: Package<br>Version: 1.2<br>Date: 2014-01-14<br>License: GPL<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>Maintainer: Jeffrey R. Webber <jwebber@geo.umass.edu<br>ElliIn Read output files generated from the program Ellipsoid 2003.<br>Description<br>ElliIn reads output files generated from the program Ellipsoid 2003 in order to create stereonets,<br>Nadai plots, and interactive 3D ellipsoid models.<br>Usage<br>ElliIn(elli.files)<br>ElliOut 3<br>Arguments<br>elli.files Path of Ellipsoid 2003 file (.elli) to be read into R.<br>Value<br>Returns a data frame object containing properties of fitted ellipsoids including the filename of the<br>Ellipsoid 2003 file; X, Y, and Z axial lengths of the ellipsoids; X, Y, Z axial azimuths and inclinations; strike and dip of the XY plane; rake of lineation within XY plane; number of sections used to<br>fit ellipsoid; incompatibility index; octahedral shear strain, and Lode parameter.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Launeau, P. and P. Robin (2005). Determination of fabric and strain ellipsoids from measured<br>sectional ellipses implementation and applications. Journal of structural geology 27 (12), 2223–<br>2233<br>See Also<br>ElliOut<br>ElliOut Write results of sectional analyses to Ellipsoid 2003 compatible files.<br>Description<br>ElliOut writes an ASCII file formated for use in the program Ellipsoid 2003 for ellipsoid fitting to<br>sectional data.<br>Usage<br>ElliOut(my.results, setup.file, out.file, use.ratio = FALSE)<br>Arguments<br>my.results An object or list of objects of class RFPHI or FRY.<br>setup.file Location of setup.txt file containing orientation data corresponding to the sectional fabric or strain data.<br>out.file File to write Ellipsoid 2003 file to.<br>use.ratio Logical, if TRUE, Rs ratio is used instead of axial lengths. Best used when axial<br>lengths between sectional analyses are not meaningful.<br>4 EllipAxes<br>Value<br>File for use in Ellipsoid 2003.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Launeau, P. and P. Robin (2005). Determination of fabric and strain ellipsoids from measured<br>sectional ellipses implementation and applications. Journal of structural geology 27 (12), 2223–<br>2233<br>See Also<br>ElliIn<br>EllipAxes Calculate ellipsoid axial lengths based on octahedral shear strain and<br>Lode parameter.<br>Description<br>Function uses the octahedral shear strain and Lode parameter of a desired strain ellipsoid and returns<br>the normalized axial lengths X Y and Z.<br>Usage<br>EllipAxes(es, nu)<br>Arguments<br>es Octahedral shear strain. Values must be positive.<br>nu Lode parameter. Values must be between -1 and 1.<br>Value<br>A numeric vector of length three with values returned in descending order (i.e. X, Y, and Z)<br>Note<br>Not used in RockFab scripts but can be useful for other endeavors.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>ElliView 5<br>References<br>See for example: Ramsay, J. and M. Huber (1993). The techniques of modern structural geology.<br>Examples<br>es <- runif(min = 0, max = 3, n = 1)<br>nu <- runif(min = -1, max = 1, n = 1)<br>EllipAxes(es = es, nu = nu)<br>ElliView Interactive 3D fabric and strain ellipsoid visualization tool.<br>Description<br>Function deforms a unit sphere based on the parameters of the calculated fabric or strain ellipsoid<br>and opens an rgl device to interactively view the result.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked 4, schmidt_nets/rfpdf4.txt
> Value<br>Function creates a standardized PDF file containing an RfPhi plot, sectional Rs ellipse, Chi square<br>plot, and a list of calculated properties. These properties are also returned via an object of class<br>RFPHI.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Dunnet, D. (1969). A technique of finite strain analysis using elliptical particles.<br>Ramsay, J. (1969). Folding and fracturing of rocks.<br>Lisle, R. (1985). Geological strain analysis, a manual for the rf/phi method.<br>Mulchrone, K. and P. Meere (2001). A windows program for the analysis of tectonic strain using<br>deformed elliptical markers.<br>Mookerjee, M. and S. Nickleach (2011). Three-dimensional strain analysis using Mathematica.<br>See Also<br>FryData, FryNormData, FrySelect<br>RFPHI-class 15<br>RFPHI-class Class "RFPHI"<br>Description<br>Class to hold basic RfPhi data.<br>Objects from the Class<br>Objects can be created by calls of the form new("RFPHI", ...).<br>Slots<br>sectionName: Object of class "character" defining the section ID string.<br>vectorMean: Object of class "numeric" containing the calculated vector mean of object long axes.<br>harmonicMean: Object of class "numeric" containing the harmonic mean of object axial ratios.<br>strainRatio: Object of class "numeric" containing the calculated sectional strain or fabric ratio.<br>indexSymmetry: Object of class "numeric" containing the index of symmetry based on the vector<br>and harmonic means.<br>sampleSize: Object of class "numeric" containing the number of objects used in the analysis.<br>meanObjectArea: Object of class "numeric" containing the average object area based on fitted<br>object ellipses.<br>rsAxes: Object of class "numeric" of length two containing the axial lengths of the calculated<br>sectional strain or fabric ellipse.<br>chiSquare: Object of class "data.frame" containing the results of the chi squared statistical test<br>for uniform distribution at each increment of anti-strain.<br>Methods<br>No methods defined with class "RFPHI" in the signature.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>FRY<br>Examples<br>showClass("RFPHI")<br>16 StereoCirc<br>RfPhiParRead Read manual data collected from the RfPhi method.<br>Description<br>This function creates a data frame object typically constructed from sectional image data when<br>manual Rf/Phi data is used.<br>Usage<br>RfPhiParRead(rfphi.file)<br>Arguments<br>rfphi.file A tab delineated text file containing the length of the long axis, short axis, and<br>the orientation (rake) of objects measured in the field using a convention of rake<br>measured positive clockwise from the direction of strike following right hand<br>rule. Text file header must be used and should be defined as follows: l.axis<br>s.axis phi<br>Value<br>Returns a data frame object for use as input in RfPhi.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>See Also<br>RfPhi<br>StereoCirc Primitive circle plotter for stereonet.<br>Description<br>This function simply adds a primitive circle to an existing plot and is used in coordination with<br>other stereonet plotting tools.<br>Usage<br>StereoCirc(n.seg = 360)<br>Arguments<br>n.seg The number of segments to use in circle plot. Defaults to 360.<br>StereoPlane 17<br>Value<br>Adds primitive circle to open plot.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoPlane, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}<br>StereoPlane Add plane data to stereonet.<br>Description<br>Function adds a great circle to existing plot based on the strike and dip of a plane.<br>Usage<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = 0, my.dip = 45, my.color = "black")<br>Arguments<br>my.strike The strike of the plane to plot as a great circle.<br>my.dip The dip of the plane to plot as a great circle.<br>my.color The line color used in the plot.<br>18 StereoPlot<br>Value<br>Adds great circle of plane to existing plot.<br>Author(s)<br>Jeffrey R. Webber<br>References<br>Modified from the package RFOC by Jonathan M. Lees.<br>See Also<br>StereoPlot, StereoWeb, StereoCirc, StereoPoint<br>Examples<br>#Plot random plane and lineation<br>strike <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>dip <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>trend <- runif(min = 0, max = 360, n = 1)<br>plunge <- runif(min = 0, max = 90, n = 1)<br>if(interactive()){<br>StereoPlot(my.title = "Example Stereonet")<br>StereoWeb()<br>StereoCirc()<br>StereoPoint(my.az = trend, my.inc = plunge)<br>StereoPlane(my.strike = strike, my.dip = dip)<br>}

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rf5.txt
> <td Old&nbsp;sources: </td<br><td <a href="https://CRAN.R-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/RockFab" <span class="CRAN" RockFab archive </span </a </td<br></tr<br></tbody</table<br><h4Reverse dependencies:</h4<br><table<br><tbody<tr<br><tdReverse&nbsp;imports:</td<br><td<a href="../JFM/index.html"<span class="CRAN"JFM</span</a</td<br></tr<br></tbody</table<br><h4Linking:</h4<br><pPlease use the canonical form<br><a href="https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=RockFab"<span class="CRAN"<samphttps://CRAN.R-project.org/package=RockFab</samp</span</a<br>to link to this page.</p<br></div

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked not in top 100, schmidt_nets/rf4.txt
> </tbody</table<br><h4Downloads:</h4<br><table<br><tbody<tr<br><td Package&nbsp;source: </td<br><td <a href="../../../src/contrib/RockFab_1.2.1.tar.gz" <span class="CRAN" RockFab_1.2.1.tar.gz </span </a </td<br></tr<br><tr<br><td Windows&nbsp;binaries: </td<br><td r-prerel: <a href="../../../bin/windows/contrib/4.4/RockFab_1.2.1.zip"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.zip</span</a, r-release: <a href="../../../bin/windows/contrib/4.3/RockFab_1.2.1.zip"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.zip</span</a, r-oldrel: <a href="../../../bin/windows/contrib/4.2/RockFab_1.2.1.zip"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.zip</span</a </td<br></tr<br><tr<br><td macOS&nbsp;binaries: </td<br><td r-prerel (arm64): <a href="../../../bin/macosx/big-sur-arm64/contrib/4.4/RockFab_1.2.1.tgz"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.tgz</span</a, r-release (arm64): <a href="../../../bin/macosx/big-sur-arm64/contrib/4.3/RockFab_1.2.1.tgz"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.tgz</span</a, r-oldrel (arm64): <a href="../../../bin/macosx/big-sur-arm64/contrib/4.2/RockFab_1.2.1.tgz"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.tgz</span</a, r-prerel (x86_64): <a href="../../../bin/macosx/big-sur-x86_64/contrib/4.4/RockFab_1.2.1.tgz"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.tgz</span</a, r-release (x86_64): <a href="../../../bin/macosx/big-sur-x86_64/contrib/4.3/RockFab_1.2.1.tgz"<span class="CRAN"RockFab_1.2.1.tgz</span</a </td<br></tr<br><tr
