# Query `115`

## Original Question

*I am new with Python so please be kind. I want to download data from ERA5 and so far I have installed the CDS API package and followed all the instructions from https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api-how-to

I have my main file ready to use but I get an error about the configuration file. I know that this file should contain the following:

url: https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api/v2
key: {UID}:{key}
verify:0
I have created a text file and a configuration file with this info and I have placed them in the following address (as required by the error I get in python):

C:\Users\username\.cdsapirc
However, I still get the same error. What I am doing wrong? Do I need to create a different type of file? Do I need to write the user info in a different way?

Exception: Missing/incomplete configuration file: C:\Users\username/.cdsapirc
By the way, I'm using a windows computer.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.4000
P_25: 0.1600
P_50: 0.1000
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.4000
recall_10: 0.8000
recall_25: 0.8000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.2773
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4973
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4973
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5652
ndcg_cut_100: 0.5652
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1300
map_cut_10: 0.3157
map_cut_25: 0.3157
map_cut_50: 0.3480
map_cut_100: 0.3480
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) era5_data/api_how_to3_1.txt
> DS API on macOS<br>For linux users, please proceed as follows:<br>Install the CDS API key<br>Install the CDS API client<br>Use the CDS API client for data access<br><br><br>Install the CDS API key<br><br>If you don't have an account, please self register at the CDS registration page and go to the steps below.<br><br>If you are not logged, please login and go to the step below.<br><br><br>Copy the code displayed beside, in the file $HOME/.cdsapirc (in your Unix/Linux environment).

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) era5_data/api_how_to3_2.txt
> url: {api-url}<br>key: {uid}:{api-key}<br><br><br><br>Install the CDS API client<br><br>The CDS API client is a python based library. It provides support for both Python 2.7.x and Python 3.<br>You can Install the CDS API client via the package management system pip, by running on Unix/Linux the command shown in the box beside.<br><br><br><br>$ pip install cdsapi<br><br><br><br><br>Use the CDS API client for data access<br><br>Once the CDS API client is installed

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) era5_data/api_how_to3_0.txt
> A new CDS soon to be launched - expect some disruptions and watch this page for latest. Thank you.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>The Climate Data Store (CDS) Application Program Interface (API) is a service providing programmatic access to CDS data. In this page you will find explanations and examples showing how to use the CDS API. <br>For troubleshooting, check Common Error Messages for CDS Requests<br>For Windows users, please read How to install and use CDS API on Windows<br>For macOS users, please read How to install and use C

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt4.txt
> Question<br>How do I create a test file under the sub folder?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Community Answer<br><br><br><br>								Change directory into the new sub folder and then on the next line, create your new test file. For example: cd mysubfolder $ type nul  newtextfile.txt<br>							<br><br><br><br>Thanks! We're glad this was helpful.<br>Thank you for your feedback.<br><br>		If wikiHow has helped you, please consider a small contribution to support us in helping more readers like you. We’re committed to providing the world with free how-to resources, and even $1 helps us in our mission.<br>		<br>			Support wikiHow<br>		<br><br><br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br>Not Helpful 7<br>Helpful 14<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>See more answers<br><br><br><br>Ask a Question<br><br><br>200 characters left<br><br>Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.<br>Submit<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Video<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tips<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>		Submit a Tip<br>		All tip submissions are carefully reviewed before being published<br><br><br><br>Submit<br><br><br><br>		Thanks for submitting a tip for review!<br>	<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Warnings<br><br><br><br>Using Command Prompt to delete files results in the files being deleted permanently rather than being moved to the Recycle Bin. Exercise caution when deleting files via Command Prompt.<br><br><br>Thanks<br><br><br>			Helpful<br>			1<br><br><br>			Not Helpful<br>			0<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>You Might Also Like<br><br><br>How toDelete a File Using Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Navigate to a Different Folder in the Command Prompt<br><br><br><br>How toCopy Files in Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Change a Windows Password Using Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Format a USB Using CMD (Command Prompt)<br><br><br>How toAdd Users from CMD<br><br><br>How to Run a Windows Batch File from the Command Line (CMD)<br><br><br>How toReboot from Command Prompt on Windows<br><br><br>How to Open a Folder in Command Prompt (CMD)<br><br><br>How to Run an EXE File at the Windows Command Prompt<br><br><br>How toUse Windows Command Prompt to Run a Python File<br><br><br>How toWatch Star Wars on Command Prompt<br><br><br>How toUse Net Send<br><br><br>3 Ways to Open Command Prompt with Keyboard on Windows<br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>References<br><br><br><br>↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUXoESFy3Zk<br><br><br>↑ https://www.w3schools.io/terminal/dos-empty-file/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUXoESFy3Zk<br><br><br>↑ https://techpp.com/2021/08/22/create-file-using-command-prompt-guide/<br><br><br>↑ https://winaero.com/create-file-specific-size-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.windows-commandline.com/delete-files-command-line/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br><br>More References (6)<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/attrib<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br><br><br><br>About This Article

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt5.txt
> Written by:<br>							<br>Nicole Levine, MFA<br>wikiHow Technology Writer<br><br><br><br><br>			This article was co-authored by wikiHow staff writer, Nicole Levine, MFA. Nicole Levine is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. She has more than 20 years of experience creating technical documentation and leading support teams at major web hosting and software companies. Nicole also holds an MFA in Creative Writing from Portland State University and teaches composition, fiction-writing, and zine-making at various institutions.  This article has been viewed 1,551,191 times.<br>			<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>How helpful is this?<br><br><br><br><br>						Co-authors:  28<br><br><br>Updated: April 16, 2024<br><br><br>						Views: 1,551,191<br><br><br><br>					Categories: Featured Articles | Command Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br>Article SummaryX1. Use the mkdir command to create a folder.<br>2. Use rmdir /s to delete a folder.<br>3. Use the copy con or echo command to create a file.<br>4. Use del to delete a file. For tips on how to create a file inside a folder, read on!<br>Did this summary help you?YesNo<br><br><br><br><br><br>In other languages<br>Indonesian<br>Italian<br>Arabic<br>Chinese<br>French<br>Russian<br>Thai<br>Spanish<br>Portuguese<br>Vietnamese<br>Turkish<br>Hindi<br>Japanese<br><br><br><br>Print<br>Send fan mail to authors<br><br><br>Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 1,551,191 times.<br><br><br><br><br>Is this article up to date?<br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br>Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>						Written by:<br>					<br>Nicole Levine, MFA<br>wikiHow Technology Writer<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Click a star to vote<br><br><br>% of people told us that this article helped them.<br><br><br><br><br>				Co-authors:  28<br><br><br>Updated: April 16, 2024<br><br><br>				Views: 1,551,191<br><br><br><br><br><br>QuizzesAm I a Narcissist or an Empath QuizTake QuizDoes He Like Me QuizTake QuizWhat Is My Aesthetic QuizTake QuizAm I Gay QuizTake QuizWhy Can't I Sleep QuizTake QuizZodiac Compatibility QuizTake Quiz<br>You Might Also LikeHow toDelete a File Using Command PromptHow to Navigate to a Different Folder in the Command PromptHow toCopy Files in Command PromptHow to Change a Windows Password Using Command Prompt<br>Featured ArticlesHow toInvest in YourselfHow to Win an "I Love You More" ArgumentHow toAvoid Letting Pessimistic People Get You DownHow toBe AuthenticThe Correct Way to Do Push-Ups for BeginnersWhich Myers-Briggs Personality Types Are Compatible?Trending ArticlesHow to Set Boundaries with Texting2 Simple Ways to Print Photos and Documents from an iPhoneNo Need for Laundry: 11 Easy Ways to Remove Musty Smells from Clothes Without Washing ThemChildhood Trauma TestHow to Automatically Forward Text Messages to Another Phone105+ Rizz Jokes, Puns, & One-Liners to Impress EveryoneFeatured ArticlesHow to Backup Your iPhone to an External Hard DriveDoes She Like Me? 15+ Signs She’s Into YouHow toPersevereHow toChoose the Right Car for You50 Cute & Flirty Knock-Knock Jokes to Make Them Smile5 Quick Steps to Delete an App on Samsung TV's Smart HubFeatured ArticlesHow to Get Good Looking Nails Fast: Expert TipsHow toKnow if You Are Ready for a RelationshipHow toDevelop Personality21 Ways to Feel More Comfortable in Your Own SkinHow toWrite a BookWhat Does the Angel Number 0404 Mean?Watch ArticlesHow toFold Boxer BriefsHow toSuspend an Object in JelloAn Absolute Beginners' Guide to Applying Makeup Like a ProHow toMake Gummy BearsHow toStore Cut GingerHow to Draw a Bunny Step by Step: Easy and Realistic MethodsTrending ArticlesWhat Instrument Should I Play QuizHow toTest Gold at Home12 Ways to Fix It When an iPhone Camera Is Not WorkingWhat Are the Best Colors for Scorpio & What Do They Mean?How Long Does It Take to Go from Exclusive Dating to a Relationship?How and When Should You Prune a Money Tree?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>CategoriesComputers and ElectronicsOperating SystemsWindowsCommand Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>wikiHow Newsletter<br>You're all set!<br>Helpful how-tos delivered toyour inbox every week!<br><br>Sign me up!<br>By signing up you are agreeing to receive emails according to our privacy policy.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Home<br>About wikiHow<br>Experts<br>Jobs<br>Contact Us<br>Site Map<br>Terms of Use<br>Privacy Policy<br>Do Not Sell or Share My Info<br>Not Selling Info<br>Contribute<br><br><br><br><br>Follow Us<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>×<br><br>Keep up with tech in just 5 minutes a week!<br>Subscribe<br>You're all set!<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>--544


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 7, era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt2.txt
> This article has been viewed 1,551,191 times.<br><br>			<br>Learn more...<br><br><br><br><br>Learning how to do simple file management at the Command Prompt (cmd) comes in handy when you're learning to code. When you create files and folders at the command line, you can access, use, and manipulate those folders and files in Windows apps. We'll show you how to create folders (directories) and text files at the Windows Command Prompt, and teach you commands for deleting unneeded files and folders.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Steps<br><br><br><br><br>Method 1<br><br><br><br>Method 1 of 4:<br>Creating a File<br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/6\/63\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-10-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-10-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/6\/63\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-10-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-10-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":347,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":549,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>1<br>Open the Command Prompt. The easiest way to do this is to press Win + S to activate the search bar, type cmd, and then click Command Prompt in the search results. <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/1\/1b\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-11-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-11-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/1\/1b\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-11-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-11-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>2<br>Go to the directory in which you want to create the file. The prompt will open to C:\Users\YourName by default. If the directory is somewhere else, type cd path_to_directory  and press Enter. Replace path_to_directory with the actual directory location.[1]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br>For example, if you want to create a file on the Desktop, type cd desktop and press Enter.<br>If the directory you're looking for isn't in your user directory (e.g., C:\Users\YourName), you'll have to type in the whole path (e.g., C:\Users\SomeoneElse\Desktop\Files).<br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/e\/e8\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-12-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-12-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/e\/e8\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-12-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-12-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":343,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":543,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>3<br>Create an empty file. If you don't want to create an empty file, skip to the next step.[2]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br> To create an empty file:<br><br>Type type nul  filename.txt.<br>Replace filename.txt with whatever you want to call your new file. The ".txt" part indicates that this is a plain text file. Other common file extensions include ".docx" (Word document), ".png" (empty photo),and ".rtf" (rich text document). All of these file types can be read on any Windows computer without installing additional software.<br>Press Enter.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/c\/c0\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-13-Version-4.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-13-Version-4.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/c\/c0\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-13-Version-4.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-13-Version-4.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>4<br>Create a file containing certain text. If you don't want to create a file with certain text inside, skip to the next step.[3]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br> Use these steps to create a plain text file that you can type into:<br><br>Type copy con testfile.txt, but replace testfile with the desired file name.[4]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br>Press Enter.<br>Type some text. This is a rudimentary text editor, but it's good for quick notes or code. You can use the Enter key to go to the next line.<br>Press Control + Z when you're finished editing the file.<br>Press the Enter key. You'll see "1 file(s) copied," which means your file is now saved with the name you created.<br>Another way to do this is to run this command: echo enter your text here  filename.txt.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/4\/40\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-14-Version-4.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-14-Version-4.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/4\/40\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-14-Version-4.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-14-Version-4.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>5<br>Create a file that's a certain size. If you don't want to create a file that's a specific size, skip this step.[5]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br> To create a blank text file based on byte size, use this command:<br><br><br>fsutil file createnew filename.txt 1000.<br>Replace filename with the desired file name, and 1000 with the actual number of bytes you'd like the file to be.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Method 2<br><br><br><br>Method 2 of 4:<br>Deleting a File<br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/f\/f3\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-15-Version-2.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-15-Version-2.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/f\/f3\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-15-Version-2.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-15-Version-2.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":347,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":549,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>1<br>Open the Command Prompt. The easiest way to do this is to press Win + S to activate the search bar, type cmd, and then click Command Prompt in the search results. <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/5\/5b\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-16-Version-2.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-16-Version-2.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/5\/5b\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-16-Version-2.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-16-Version-2.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>2<br>Go to the directory containing the file you want to delete. The prompt will open to C:\Users\YourName by default. If the file is somewhere else, type cd path_to_directory  and press Enter. Replace path_to_directory with the actual directory location.<br><br>For example, if you want to delete a file from the Desktop, type cd desktop and press Enter.<br>If the directory you want to view isn't in your user directory (e.g., C:\Users\YourName), you'll have to type in the whole path (e.g., C:\Users\SomeoneElse\Desktop\Files).<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/5\/5f\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-17-Version-4.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-17-Version-4.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/5\/5f\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-17-Version-4.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-17-Version-4.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>3<br>Type dir and press ↵ Enter. This displays a list of all files in the current directory. You should see the file you want to delete in this list.<br>Using Command Prompt to delete files results in the files being deleted permanently rather than being moved to the Recycle Bin. Exercise caution when deleting files via Command Prompt.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/7\/70\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-18-Version-4.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-18-Version-4.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/7\/70\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-18-Version-4.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-18-Version-4.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>4<br>Type del filename and press ↵ Enter. Replace filename with the full name and extension of the file you want to delete.[6]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br> File names include file extensions (e.g., .txt, .jpg). This deletes the file from your computer.<br><br>For example, to delete a text file entitled "hello", you would type del hello.txt into Command Prompt.<br>If the file's name has a space in it (e.g., "hi there"), you will place the file's name in quotations (e.g., del "hi there").<br>If you get an error that says the file cannot be deleted, try using del /f filename instead, as this force-deletes read-only files.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Method 3<br><br><br><br>Method 3 of 4:<br>Creating a Folder<br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/9\/99\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-1-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-1-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/9\/99\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-1-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-1-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":347,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":549,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>1<br>Open the Command Prompt. The easiest way to do this is to press Win + S to activate the search bar, type cmd, and then click Command Prompt in the search results.[7]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/e\/eb\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-2-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-2-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/e\/eb\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-2-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-2-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>2<br>Go to the directory in which you want to create the new directory. The prompt will open to C:\Users\YourName by default. If you don't want to create a new directory here, type cd path_to_directory  and press Enter. Replace path_to_directory with the actual directory location.[8]<br>X<br>Research source

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 30, era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt1.txt
> 4 Ways to Create and Delete Files and Directories from Windows Command Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Skip to ContentQuizzesPRO<br><br>		Courses<br><br>	<br><br>		Guides<br><br>		New<br><br><br>		Tech Help Pro<br><br>	<br><br>		Expert Videos<br><br>	<br><br>		About wikiHow Pro<br><br>	<br><br>		Upgrade<br><br>	<br><br>		Sign In<br><br>	<br><br>QUIZZESEDIT<br><br>		Edit this Article<br><br>	<br><br>EXPLORE<br><br>Tech Help ProAbout UsRandom ArticleQuizzes<br><br><br>Request a New ArticleCommunity DashboardThis Or That Game<br><br><br>Popular Categories<br><br><br>Arts and EntertainmentArtworkBooksMoviesComputers and ElectronicsComputersPhone SkillsTechnology HacksHealthMen's HealthMental HealthWomen's HealthRelationshipsDatingLoveRelationship Issues<br><br><br>Hobbies and CraftsCraftsDrawingGamesEducation & CommunicationCommunication SkillsPersonal DevelopmentStudyingPersonal Care and StyleFashionHair CarePersonal HygieneYouthPersonal CareSchool StuffDating<br><br><br>All Categories<br><br><br>Arts and EntertainmentFinance and BusinessHome and GardenRelationship Quizzes<br><br><br>Cars & Other VehiclesFood and EntertainingPersonal Care and StyleSports and Fitness<br><br><br>Computers and ElectronicsHealthPets and AnimalsTravel<br><br><br>Education & CommunicationHobbies and CraftsPhilosophy and ReligionWork World<br><br><br>Family LifeHolidays and TraditionsRelationshipsYouth<br><br><br>LOG IN<br><br>Log in<br><br>Social login does not work in incognito and private browsers. Please log in with your username or email to continue.<br><br><br><br>Facebook<br><br><br><br><br><br>Google<br><br><br><br><br>wikiHow Account<br><br><br>		No account yet?		Create an account<br><br><br><br>RANDOMHomeRandomBrowse ArticlesLearn Something NewGuidesCoursesQuizzesHotPlay GamesThis Or That GameNewTrain Your BrainExplore MoreSupport wikiHowAbout wikiHowLog in / Sign upTerms of Use<br><br><br>wikiHow is where trusted research and expert knowledge come together. Learn why people trust wikiHow<br><br><br>CategoriesComputers and ElectronicsOperating SystemsWindowsCommand PromptHow to Create and Delete Files and Directories from Windows Command Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br><br>Explore this Article<br><br>methods<br><br><br>1<br>					Creating a File<br>					<br>				<br><br><br><br>2<br>					Deleting a File<br>					<br>				<br><br><br><br>3<br>					Creating a Folder<br>					<br>				<br><br><br><br>4<br>					Deleting a Folder<br>					<br>				<br><br><br><br>+<br>					Show 1 more...<br>					<br>				<br><br><br><br>-<br>					Show less...<br>					<br>				<br><br>Other Sections<br><br><br>						Questions & Answers<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br>						Video<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br>						Tips and Warnings<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br>						Related Articles<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br>						References<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br>						Article Summary<br>						<br>					<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Written by<br>Nicole Levine, MFA<br><br><br><br>Last Updated: April 16, 2024<br><br>References<br><br><br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br>X<br><br><br>		This article was co-authored by wikiHow staff writer, Nicole Levine, MFA. Nicole Levine is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. She has more than 20 years of experience creating technical documentation and leading support teams at major web hosting and software companies. Nicole also holds an MFA in Creative Writing from Portland State University and teaches composition, fiction-writing, and zine-making at various institutions.<br><br>			<br>			There are 8 references cited in this article, which can be found at the bottom of the page.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 3, era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt4.txt
> Question<br>How do I create a test file under the sub folder?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Community Answer<br><br><br><br>								Change directory into the new sub folder and then on the next line, create your new test file. For example: cd mysubfolder $ type nul  newtextfile.txt<br>							<br><br><br><br>Thanks! We're glad this was helpful.<br>Thank you for your feedback.<br><br>		If wikiHow has helped you, please consider a small contribution to support us in helping more readers like you. We’re committed to providing the world with free how-to resources, and even $1 helps us in our mission.<br>		<br>			Support wikiHow<br>		<br><br><br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br>Not Helpful 7<br>Helpful 14<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>See more answers<br><br><br><br>Ask a Question<br><br><br>200 characters left<br><br>Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.<br>Submit<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Video<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tips<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>		Submit a Tip<br>		All tip submissions are carefully reviewed before being published<br><br><br><br>Submit<br><br><br><br>		Thanks for submitting a tip for review!<br>	<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Warnings<br><br><br><br>Using Command Prompt to delete files results in the files being deleted permanently rather than being moved to the Recycle Bin. Exercise caution when deleting files via Command Prompt.<br><br><br>Thanks<br><br><br>			Helpful<br>			1<br><br><br>			Not Helpful<br>			0<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>You Might Also Like<br><br><br>How toDelete a File Using Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Navigate to a Different Folder in the Command Prompt<br><br><br><br>How toCopy Files in Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Change a Windows Password Using Command Prompt<br><br><br>How to Format a USB Using CMD (Command Prompt)<br><br><br>How toAdd Users from CMD<br><br><br>How to Run a Windows Batch File from the Command Line (CMD)<br><br><br>How toReboot from Command Prompt on Windows<br><br><br>How to Open a Folder in Command Prompt (CMD)<br><br><br>How to Run an EXE File at the Windows Command Prompt<br><br><br>How toUse Windows Command Prompt to Run a Python File<br><br><br>How toWatch Star Wars on Command Prompt<br><br><br>How toUse Net Send<br><br><br>3 Ways to Open Command Prompt with Keyboard on Windows<br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>References<br><br><br><br>↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUXoESFy3Zk<br><br><br>↑ https://www.w3schools.io/terminal/dos-empty-file/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUXoESFy3Zk<br><br><br>↑ https://techpp.com/2021/08/22/create-file-using-command-prompt-guide/<br><br><br>↑ https://winaero.com/create-file-specific-size-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.windows-commandline.com/delete-files-command-line/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br>↑ https://www.guidingtech.com/create-folder-or-file-using-windows-command-prompt/<br><br><br><br>More References (6)<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br>↑ https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/attrib<br><br><br>↑ https://pureinfotech.com/delete-folders-subfolders-command-windows-10/<br><br><br><br><br><br>About This Article

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 6, era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt3.txt
> For example, if you want to create a directory on your Desktop, you would type in cd desktop and press Enter.<br>If the directory you're looking for isn't in your user directory (e.g., C:\Users\YourName), you'll have to type in the whole path (e.g., C:\Users\SomeoneElse\Desktop\Files).<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/1\/1e\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-3-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-3-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/1\/1e\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-3-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-3-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>3<br>Type mkdir NameOfDirectory at the prompt. Replace NameOfDirectory with the name of the directory you wish to create.[9]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br>For example, to make a directory named "Homework", you would type mkdir Homework.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/f\/fd\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-4-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-4-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/f\/fd\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-4-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-4-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":342,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":541,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>4<br>Press ↵ Enter. This runs the command to create a folder with the desired name.  <br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Method 4<br><br><br><br>Method 4 of 4:<br>Deleting a Folder<br><br><br><br>Download Article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/c\/cd\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-5-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-5-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/c\/cd\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-5-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-5-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":347,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":549,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>1<br>Open the Command Prompt. The easiest way to do this is to press Win + S to activate the search bar, type cmd, and then click Command Prompt in the search results.[10]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/f\/fa\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-6-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-6-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/f\/fa\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-6-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-6-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>2<br>Go to the folder containing the directory you want to delete. The prompt will open to C:\Users\YourName by default. If the directory you want to delete is somewhere else, type cd path_to_directory  and press Enter.[11]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br> Replace path_to_directory with the actual directory location.<br><br>For example, if you want to delete a directory from your Desktop, type cd desktop.<br>If the directory isn't in your user directory (e.g., C:\Users\YourName), you'll have to type in the whole path (e.g., C:\Users\SomeoneElse\Desktop\Files).<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/2\/21\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-7-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-7-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/2\/21\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-7-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-7-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":342,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":541,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>3<br>Type rmdir /s DirectoryName. Replace DirectoryName with the name of the directory you want to delete.[12]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br>For example, if you're trying to delete your "Homework" folder, you'd type in rmdir /s Homework here.<br>If the directory's name has a space in it (e.g., "Homework assignments"), place the name in quotations (e.g., rmdir /s "Homework assignments").<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/5\/5d\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-8-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-8-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/5\/5d\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-8-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-8-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":342,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":541,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>4<br>Press ↵ Enter to run the command.[13]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br>If you try to delete a directory that contains hidden files or directories, you'll see an error that says "The directory is not empty." In this case, you'll have to remove the "hidden" and "system" attributes from the files inside the directory. To do this:[14]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br>Use cd to change into the directory you want to delete.<br>Run dir /a to view a list of all files in the directory and their attributes.<br>If you're still okay with deleting all of the files in the directory, run attrib -hs . This removes special permissions from the undeletable files.<br>Type cd .. and press Enter to go back one directory.<br>Run the rmdir /s command again to delete the folder.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{"smallUrl":"https:\/\/www.wikihow.com\/images\/thumb\/d\/d7\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-9-Version-3.jpg\/v4-460px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-9-Version-3.jpg","bigUrl":"\/images\/thumb\/d\/d7\/Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-9-Version-3.jpg\/aid5571555-v4-728px-Create-and-Delete-Files-and-Directories-from-Windows-Command-Prompt-Step-9-Version-3.jpg","smallWidth":460,"smallHeight":345,"bigWidth":728,"bigHeight":546,"licensing":"<div class=\"mw-parser-output\"<pLicense: <a target=\"_blank\" rel=\"nofollow noreferrer noopener\" class=\"external text\" href=\"https:\/\/en.wikipedia.org\/wiki\/Fair_use\"Fair Use<\/a (screenshot)<br\n<\/p<\/div"}<br>5<br>Press y and then ↵ Enter to confirm. This will permanently remove the directory.[15]<br>X<br>Research source<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>					Community Q&A<br>				<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br>Add New Question<br><br><br><br><br>Question<br>How can I create directories? <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Subhodeep Roy<br>Community Answer<br><br><br><br>								If you are creating a directory in C drive, the command will be"C:\MD {the name of the directory/folder}"  then press Enter.<br>							<br><br><br><br>Thanks! We're glad this was helpful.<br>Thank you for your feedback.<br><br>		If wikiHow has helped you, please consider a small contribution to support us in helping more readers like you. We’re committed to providing the world with free how-to resources, and even $1 helps us in our mission.<br>		<br>			Support wikiHow<br>		<br><br><br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br>Not Helpful 10<br>Helpful 35<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Question<br>How do I create a folder using CMD?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Community Answer<br><br><br><br>								Navigate to where you want the subfolder created and type "mkdir ". <br>							<br><br><br><br>Thanks! We're glad this was helpful.<br>Thank you for your feedback.<br><br>		If wikiHow has helped you, please consider a small contribution to support us in helping more readers like you. We’re committed to providing the world with free how-to resources, and even $1 helps us in our mission.<br>		<br>			Support wikiHow<br>		<br><br><br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br>Not Helpful 6<br>Helpful 20

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 4, era5_data/Create_and_Delete_Files_and_Directories_from_Windows_Command_Prompt5.txt
> Written by:<br>							<br>Nicole Levine, MFA<br>wikiHow Technology Writer<br><br><br><br><br>			This article was co-authored by wikiHow staff writer, Nicole Levine, MFA. Nicole Levine is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. She has more than 20 years of experience creating technical documentation and leading support teams at major web hosting and software companies. Nicole also holds an MFA in Creative Writing from Portland State University and teaches composition, fiction-writing, and zine-making at various institutions.  This article has been viewed 1,551,191 times.<br>			<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>How helpful is this?<br><br><br><br><br>						Co-authors:  28<br><br><br>Updated: April 16, 2024<br><br><br>						Views: 1,551,191<br><br><br><br>					Categories: Featured Articles | Command Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br>Article SummaryX1. Use the mkdir command to create a folder.<br>2. Use rmdir /s to delete a folder.<br>3. Use the copy con or echo command to create a file.<br>4. Use del to delete a file. For tips on how to create a file inside a folder, read on!<br>Did this summary help you?YesNo<br><br><br><br><br><br>In other languages<br>Indonesian<br>Italian<br>Arabic<br>Chinese<br>French<br>Russian<br>Thai<br>Spanish<br>Portuguese<br>Vietnamese<br>Turkish<br>Hindi<br>Japanese<br><br><br><br>Print<br>Send fan mail to authors<br><br><br>Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 1,551,191 times.<br><br><br><br><br>Is this article up to date?<br><br>Yes<br>No<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Advertisement<br><br><br>Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>						Written by:<br>					<br>Nicole Levine, MFA<br>wikiHow Technology Writer<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Click a star to vote<br><br><br>% of people told us that this article helped them.<br><br><br><br><br>				Co-authors:  28<br><br><br>Updated: April 16, 2024<br><br><br>				Views: 1,551,191<br><br><br><br><br><br>QuizzesAm I a Narcissist or an Empath QuizTake QuizDoes He Like Me QuizTake QuizWhat Is My Aesthetic QuizTake QuizAm I Gay QuizTake QuizWhy Can't I Sleep QuizTake QuizZodiac Compatibility QuizTake Quiz<br>You Might Also LikeHow toDelete a File Using Command PromptHow to Navigate to a Different Folder in the Command PromptHow toCopy Files in Command PromptHow to Change a Windows Password Using Command Prompt<br>Featured ArticlesHow toInvest in YourselfHow to Win an "I Love You More" ArgumentHow toAvoid Letting Pessimistic People Get You DownHow toBe AuthenticThe Correct Way to Do Push-Ups for BeginnersWhich Myers-Briggs Personality Types Are Compatible?Trending ArticlesHow to Set Boundaries with Texting2 Simple Ways to Print Photos and Documents from an iPhoneNo Need for Laundry: 11 Easy Ways to Remove Musty Smells from Clothes Without Washing ThemChildhood Trauma TestHow to Automatically Forward Text Messages to Another Phone105+ Rizz Jokes, Puns, & One-Liners to Impress EveryoneFeatured ArticlesHow to Backup Your iPhone to an External Hard DriveDoes She Like Me? 15+ Signs She’s Into YouHow toPersevereHow toChoose the Right Car for You50 Cute & Flirty Knock-Knock Jokes to Make Them Smile5 Quick Steps to Delete an App on Samsung TV's Smart HubFeatured ArticlesHow to Get Good Looking Nails Fast: Expert TipsHow toKnow if You Are Ready for a RelationshipHow toDevelop Personality21 Ways to Feel More Comfortable in Your Own SkinHow toWrite a BookWhat Does the Angel Number 0404 Mean?Watch ArticlesHow toFold Boxer BriefsHow toSuspend an Object in JelloAn Absolute Beginners' Guide to Applying Makeup Like a ProHow toMake Gummy BearsHow toStore Cut GingerHow to Draw a Bunny Step by Step: Easy and Realistic MethodsTrending ArticlesWhat Instrument Should I Play QuizHow toTest Gold at Home12 Ways to Fix It When an iPhone Camera Is Not WorkingWhat Are the Best Colors for Scorpio & What Do They Mean?How Long Does It Take to Go from Exclusive Dating to a Relationship?How and When Should You Prune a Money Tree?<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>CategoriesComputers and ElectronicsOperating SystemsWindowsCommand Prompt<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>wikiHow Newsletter<br>You're all set!<br>Helpful how-tos delivered toyour inbox every week!<br><br>Sign me up!<br>By signing up you are agreeing to receive emails according to our privacy policy.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Home<br>About wikiHow<br>Experts<br>Jobs<br>Contact Us<br>Site Map<br>Terms of Use<br>Privacy Policy<br>Do Not Sell or Share My Info<br>Not Selling Info<br>Contribute<br><br><br><br><br>Follow Us<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>×<br><br>Keep up with tech in just 5 minutes a week!<br>Subscribe<br>You're all set!<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>--544
