# Query `13`

## Original Question

*We all know that as waves approach the shallow shores, the waves begin to form a characteristic shape. The upper portion of these breaking waves appears to curl forward and downwards over the bottom segment of the wave, before breaking into "white wash". The image below illustrates what this characteristic shape looks like:

So why do waves form this characteristic breaking shape as they approach the shallow shores?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0400
recall_1: 0.0909
recall_5: 0.0909
recall_10: 0.0909
recall_25: 0.0909
recall_50: 0.1818
recall_100: 0.3636
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3392
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2201
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2074
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2458
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3124
map_cut_1: 0.0909
map_cut_5: 0.0909
map_cut_10: 0.0909
map_cut_25: 0.0909
map_cut_50: 0.0953
map_cut_100: 0.1038
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) shape_of_waves/Wave_shoaling1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In fluid dynamics, wave shoaling is the effect by which surface waves, entering shallower water, change in wave height. It is caused by the fact that the group velocity, which is also the wave-energy transport velocity, changes with water depth. Under stationary conditions, a decrease in transport speed must be compensated by an increase in energy density in order to maintain a constant energy flux. Shoaling waves will also exhibit a reduction in wavelength while the frequency remains constant.<br>In other words, as the waves approach the shore and the water gets shallower, the waves get taller, slow down, and get closer together.<br>In shallow water and parallel depth contours, non-breaking waves will increase in wave height as the wave packet enters shallower water. This is particularly evident for tsunamis as they wax in height when approaching a coastline, with devastating results.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/wave_cause4_151.txt
> The rise and fall of water molecules creates a wave that moves in the direction of the wind. The wave transports energy, not water. An analogy is a crowd of people doing a Mexican wave in a stadium: they stay in the same location, but the wave they create travels around the arena.</p<pAs waves<a href="/lastword/mg24733001-500-why-do-waves-always-appear-to-roll-towards-a-beach-not-the-other-way/" reach the shore</a, the shallow

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/Tsunami5_4.txt
> below 80 kilometres per hour (50 mph). Its wavelength diminishes to less than 20 kilometres (12 mi) and its amplitude grows enormously—in accord with Green's law. Since the wave still has the same very long period, the tsunami may take minutes to reach full height. Except for the very largest tsunamis, the approaching wave does not break, but rather appears like a fast-moving tidal bore. Open bays and coastlines adjacent to very deep water may shape the tsunami further into a step-like wave with a steep-breaking front.<br>When the tsunami's wave

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/Tsunami6_0.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Drawback<br>An illustration of the rhythmic "drawback" of surface water associated with a wave.  It follows that a very large drawback may herald the arrival of a very large wave.<br>All waves have a positive and negative peak; that is, a ridge and a trough.  In the case of a propagating wave like a tsunami, either may be the first to arrive.  If the first part to arrive at the shore is the ridge, a massive breaking wave or sudden flooding will be the first effect noticed on land.  However, if the first

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/cwd4_68.txt
> .jpg.webp?itok=-qaO9HP1" width="850" height="566" alt="A wave curls near the shore."<br><br>  </picture<br><br><br>    <figcaption<br>            <span class="fig_credit"(Flickr user bluewavechris)</span<br><br><br>    </figcaption<br></figure<br><br></div<br><pSculpting seawater into crested shapes, waves move energy from one area


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, shape_of_waves/Wave_shoaling1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In fluid dynamics, wave shoaling is the effect by which surface waves, entering shallower water, change in wave height. It is caused by the fact that the group velocity, which is also the wave-energy transport velocity, changes with water depth. Under stationary conditions, a decrease in transport speed must be compensated by an increase in energy density in order to maintain a constant energy flux. Shoaling waves will also exhibit a reduction in wavelength while the frequency remains constant.<br>In other words, as the waves approach the shore and the water gets shallower, the waves get taller, slow down, and get closer together.<br>In shallow water and parallel depth contours, non-breaking waves will increase in wave height as the wave packet enters shallower water. This is particularly evident for tsunamis as they wax in height when approaching a coastline, with devastating results.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%297.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>Waves on a mean current: Doppler shift[edit]<br>Water waves on a mean flow (so a wave in a moving medium) experience a Doppler shift. Suppose the dispersion relation for a non-moving medium is:<br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>k<br>)<br>,<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ^{2}=\Omega ^{2}(k),\,}<br>with k the wavenumber. Then for a medium with mean velocity vector V, the dispersion relationship with Doppler shift becomes:<br>(<br><br>ω<br>−<br><br>k<br><br>⋅<br><br>V<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>k<br>)<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \left(\omega -\mathbf {k} \cdot \mathbf {V} \right)^{2}=\Omega ^{2}(k),}<br>where k is the wavenumber vector, related to k as: k = |k|. The dot product k•V is equal to: k•V = kV cos α, with V the length of the mean velocity vector V: V = |V|. And α the angle between the wave propagation direction and the mean flow direction. For waves and current in the same direction, k•V=kV.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%294.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Surface tension effects[edit]<br><br>Further information: Capillary wave<br>Dispersion of gravity-capillary waves on the surface of deep water. Phase and group velocity divided by <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>σ<br><br>/<br><br>ρ<br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\sqrt[{4}]{g\sigma /\rho }}}<br><br> as a function of inverse relative wavelength <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>λ<br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>/<br><br>(<br>ρ<br>g<br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\frac {1}{\lambda }}{\sqrt {\sigma /(\rho g)}}}<br><br>.Blue lines (A): phase velocity, Red lines (B): group velocity.Drawn lines: dispersion relation for gravity-capillary waves.Dashed lines: dispersion relation for deep-water gravity waves.Dash-dot lines: dispersion relation valid for deep-water capillary waves.<br>In case of gravity–capillary waves, where surface tension affects the waves, the dispersion relation becomes:<br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>(<br><br>g<br>k<br>+<br><br><br>σ<br>ρ<br><br><br><br>k<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br>(<br>k<br>h<br>)<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ^{2}=\left(gk+{\frac {\sigma }{\rho }}k^{3}\right)\tanh(kh),}<br>with σ the surface tension (in N/m).<br>For a water–air interface (with σ = 0.074 N/m and ρ = 1000 kg/m³) the waves can be approximated as pure capillary waves – dominated by surface-tension effects – for wavelengths less than 0.4 cm (0.2 in). For wavelengths above 7 cm (3 in) the waves are to good approximation pure surface gravity waves with very little surface-tension effects.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%291.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In fluid dynamics, dispersion of water waves generally refers to frequency dispersion, which means that waves of different wavelengths travel at different phase speeds. Water waves, in this context, are waves propagating on the water surface, with gravity and surface tension as the restoring forces. As a result, water with a free surface is generally considered to be a dispersive medium.<br>For a certain water depth, surface gravity waves – i.e. waves occurring at the air–water interface and gravity as the only force restoring it to flatness – propagate faster with increasing wavelength. On the other hand, for a given (fixed) wavelength, gravity waves in deeper water have a larger phase speed than in shallower water. In contrast with the behavior of gravity waves, capillary waves (i.e. only forced by surface tension) propagate faster for shorter wavelengths.<br>Besides frequency dispersion, water waves also exhibit amplitude dispersion. This is a nonlinear effect, by which waves of larger amplitude have a different phase speed from small-amplitude waves.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 40, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%296.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Nonlinear effects[edit]<br>Shallow water[edit]<br><br>Further information: cnoidal wave<br>Amplitude dispersion effects appear for instance in the solitary wave: a single hump of water traveling with constant velocity in shallow water with a horizontal bed. Note that solitary waves are near-solitons, but not exactly – after the interaction of two (colliding or overtaking) solitary waves, they have changed a bit in amplitude and an oscillatory residual is left behind. The single soliton solution of the Korteweg–de Vries equation, of wave height H in water depth h far away from the wave crest, travels with the velocity:<br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br>(<br>h<br>+<br>H<br>)<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}=c_{g}={\sqrt {g(h+H)}}.}<br>So for this nonlinear gravity wave it is the total water depth under the wave crest that determines the speed, with higher waves traveling faster than lower waves. Note that solitary wave solutions only exist for positive values of H, solitary gravity waves of depression do not exist.<br>Deep water[edit]<br><br>Further information: Stokes wave<br>The linear dispersion relation – unaffected by wave amplitude – is for nonlinear waves also correct at the second order of the perturbation theory expansion, with the orders in terms of the wave steepness k a (where a is wave amplitude). To the third order, and for deep water, the dispersion relation is<br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br>g<br>k<br><br>[<br><br>1<br>+<br>(<br>k<br>a<br><br>)<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>]<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ^{2}=gk\left[1+(ka)^{2}\right],}<br><br>   so   <br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br>1<br>+<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>(<br>k<br>a<br><br>)<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>]<br><br>+<br><br><br>O<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>(<br>k<br>a<br><br>)<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}={\sqrt {\frac {g}{k}}}\,\left[1+{\tfrac {1}{2}}\,(ka)^{2}\right]+{\mathcal {O}}\left((ka)^{4}\right).}<br>This implies that large waves travel faster than small ones of the same frequency. This is only noticeable when the wave steepness k a is large.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%293.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>History[edit]<br>The full linear dispersion relation was first found by Pierre-Simon Laplace, although there were some errors in his solution for the linear wave problem.<br>The complete theory for linear water waves, including dispersion, was derived by George Biddell Airy and published in about 1840. A similar equation was also found by Philip Kelland at around the same time (but making some mistakes in his derivation of the wave theory).<br>The shallow water (with small h / λ) limit, ω = gh k, was derived by Joseph Louis Lagrange.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Wave_shoaling4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Water wave refraction[edit]<br>Following Phillips (1977) and Mei (1989), denote the phase of a wave ray as<br>S<br>=<br>S<br>(<br><br>x<br><br>,<br>t<br>)<br>,<br><br>0<br>≤<br>S<br><<br>2<br>π<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S=S(\mathbf {x} ,t),\qquad 0\leq S<2\pi }<br><br>.<br>The local wave number vector is the gradient of the phase function,<br>k<br><br>=<br>∇<br>S<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mathbf {k} =\nabla S}<br><br>,<br>and the angular frequency is proportional to its local rate of change,<br>ω<br>=<br>−<br>∂<br>S<br><br>/<br><br>∂<br>t<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega =-\partial S/\partial t}<br><br>.<br>Simplifying to one dimension and cross-differentiating it is now easily seen that the above definitions indicate simply that the rate of change of wavenumber is balanced by the convergence of the frequency along a ray;<br>∂<br>k<br><br><br>∂<br>t<br><br><br><br>+<br><br><br><br>∂<br>ω<br><br><br>∂<br>x<br><br><br><br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {\partial k}{\partial t}}+{\frac {\partial \omega }{\partial x}}=0}<br><br>.<br>Assuming stationary conditions (<br><br><br><br>∂<br><br>/<br><br>∂<br>t<br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \partial /\partial t=0}<br><br>), this implies that wave crests are conserved and the frequency must remain constant along a wave ray as <br><br><br><br>∂<br>ω<br><br>/<br><br>∂<br>x<br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \partial \omega /\partial x=0}<br><br>.<br>As waves enter shallower waters, the decrease in group velocity caused by the reduction in water depth leads to a reduction in wave length <br><br><br><br>λ<br>=<br>2<br>π<br><br>/<br><br>k<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \lambda =2\pi /k}<br><br> because the nondispersive shallow water limit of the dispersion relation for the wave phase speed,<br>ω<br><br>/<br><br>k<br>≡<br>c<br>=<br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega /k\equiv c={\sqrt {gh}}}<br>dictates that<br>k<br>=<br>ω<br><br>/<br><br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle k=\omega /{\sqrt {gh}}}<br><br>,<br>i.e., a steady increase in k (decrease in <br><br><br><br>λ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \lambda }<br><br>) as the phase speed decreases under constant <br><br><br><br>ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega }<br><br>.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked 83, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%295.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Interfacial waves[edit]<br>Wave motion on the interface between two layers of inviscid homogeneous fluids of different density, confined between horizontal rigid boundaries (at the top and bottom). The motion is forced by gravity. The upper layer has mean depth h‘ and density ρ‘, while the lower layer has mean depth h and density ρ. The wave amplitude is a, the wavelength is denoted by λ.<br>For two homogeneous layers of fluids, of mean thickness h below the interface and h′ above – under the action of gravity and bounded above and below by horizontal rigid walls – the dispersion relationship ω = Ω(k) for gravity waves is provided by:<br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>k<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>k<br>(<br>ρ<br>−<br><br>ρ<br>′<br><br>)<br><br><br>ρ<br><br>coth<br>⁡<br>(<br>k<br>h<br>)<br>+<br><br>ρ<br>′<br><br><br>coth<br>⁡<br>(<br>k<br><br>h<br>′<br><br>)<br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Omega ^{2}(k)={\frac {g\,k(\rho -\rho ')}{\rho \,\coth(kh)+\rho '\,\coth(kh')}},}<br>where again ρ and ρ′ are the densities below and above the interface, while coth is the hyperbolic cotangent function. For the case ρ′ is zero this reduces to the dispersion relation of surface gravity waves on water of finite depth h.<br>When the depth of the two fluid layers becomes very large (h→∞, h′→∞), the hyperbolic cotangents in the above formula approaches the value of one. Then:<br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>k<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>ρ<br>−<br><br>ρ<br>′<br><br><br><br>ρ<br>+<br><br>ρ<br>′<br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br><br>k<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Omega ^{2}(k)={\frac {\rho -\rho '}{\rho +\rho '}}\,g\,k.}

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Wave_shoaling3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Physics[edit]<br>When waves enter shallow water they slow down. Under stationary conditions, the wave length is reduced. The energy flux must remain constant and the reduction in group (transport) speed is compensated by an increase in wave height (and thus wave energy density).<br>Convergence of wave rays (reduction of width <br><br><br><br>b<br><br><br>{\displaystyle b}<br><br>) at Mavericks, California, producing high surfing waves. The red lines are the wave rays; the blue lines are the wavefronts. The distances between neighboring wave rays vary towards the coast because of refraction by bathymetry (depth variations). The distance between wavefronts (i.e. the wavelength) reduces towards the coast because of the decreasing phase speed.<br>Shoaling coefficient <br><br><br><br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle K_{S}}<br><br> as a function of relative water depth <br><br><br><br>h<br><br>/<br><br><br>L<br><br>0<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h/L_{0},}<br><br> describing the effect of wave shoaling on the wave height – based on conservation of energy and results from Airy wave theory. The local wave height <br><br><br><br>H<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H}<br><br> at a certain mean water depth <br><br><br><br>h<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h}<br><br> is equal to <br><br><br><br>H<br>=<br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>0<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H=K_{S}\;H_{0},}<br><br> with <br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle H_{0}}<br><br> the wave height in deep water (i.e. when the water depth is greater than about half the wavelength). The shoaling coefficient <br><br><br><br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle K_{S}}<br><br> depends on <br><br><br><br>h<br><br>/<br><br><br>L<br><br>0<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h/L_{0},}<br><br> where <br><br><br><br><br>L<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle L_{0}}<br><br> is the wavelength in deep water: <br><br><br><br><br>L<br><br>0<br><br><br>=<br>g<br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>(<br>2<br>π<br>)<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle L_{0}=gT^{2}/(2\pi ),}<br><br> with <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> the wave period and <br><br><br><br>g<br><br><br>{\displaystyle g}<br><br> the gravity of Earth. The blue line is the shoaling coefficient according to Green's law for waves in shallow water, i.e. valid when the water depth is less than 1/20 times the local wavelength <br><br><br><br>L<br>=<br>T<br><br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle L=T\,{\sqrt {gh}}.}<br>For non-breaking waves, the energy flux associated with the wave motion, which is the product of the wave energy density with the group velocity, between two wave rays is a conserved quantity (i.e. a constant when following the energy of a wave packet from one location to another). Under stationary conditions the total energy transport must be constant along the wave ray – as first shown by William Burnside in 1915.<br>For waves affected by refraction and shoaling (i.e. within the geometric optics approximation), the rate of change of the wave energy transport is:<br>d<br><br>d<br>s<br><br><br><br>(<br>b<br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>E<br>)<br>=<br>0<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {d}{ds}}(bc_{g}E)=0,}<br>where <br><br><br><br>s<br><br><br>{\displaystyle s}<br><br> is the co-ordinate along the wave ray and <br><br><br><br>b<br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>E<br><br><br>{\displaystyle bc_{g}E}<br><br> is the energy flux per unit crest length. A decrease in group speed <br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{g}}<br><br> and distance between the wave rays <br><br><br><br>b<br><br><br>{\displaystyle b}<br><br> must be compensated by an increase in energy density <br><br><br><br>E<br><br><br>{\displaystyle E}<br><br>. This can be formulated as a shoaling coefficient relative to the wave height in deep water.<br>For shallow water, when the wavelength is much larger than the water depth – in case of a constant ray distance <br><br><br><br>b<br><br><br>{\displaystyle b}<br><br> (i.e. perpendicular wave incidence on a coast with parallel depth contours) – wave shoaling satisfies Green's law:<br>H<br><br><br><br>h<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>constant<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H\,{\sqrt[{4}]{h}}={\text{constant}},}<br>with <br><br><br><br>h<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h}<br><br> the mean water depth, <br><br><br><br>H<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H}<br><br> the wave height and <br><br><br><br><br><br>h<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt[{4}]{h}}}<br><br> the fourth root of <br><br><br><br>h<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h.}

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked 65, shape_of_waves/Dispersion_%28water_waves%292.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Frequency dispersion for surface gravity waves[edit]<br>This section is about frequency dispersion for waves on a fluid layer forced by gravity, and according to linear theory. For surface tension effects on frequency dispersion, see surface tension effects in Airy wave theory and capillary wave.<br>Wave propagation and dispersion[edit]<br>Sinusoidal wave.<br>The simplest propagating wave of unchanging form is a sine wave. A sine wave with water surface elevation η( x, t ) is given by:<br>η<br>(<br>x<br>,<br>t<br>)<br>=<br>a<br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>θ<br>(<br>x<br>,<br>t<br>)<br><br>)<br><br>,<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \eta (x,t)=a\sin \left(\theta (x,t)\right),\,}<br>where a is the amplitude (in metres) and θ = θ( x, t ) is the phase function (in radians), depending on the horizontal position ( x , in metres) and time ( t , in seconds):<br>θ<br>=<br>2<br>π<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>x<br>λ<br><br><br>−<br><br><br>t<br>T<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>=<br>k<br>x<br>−<br>ω<br>t<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta =2\pi \left({\frac {x}{\lambda }}-{\frac {t}{T}}\right)=kx-\omega t,}<br><br>   with   <br><br><br><br>k<br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>λ<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle k={\frac {2\pi }{\lambda }}}<br><br>   and   <br><br><br><br>ω<br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>T<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ={\frac {2\pi }{T}},}<br>where:<br>λ is the wavelength (in metres),<br>T is the period (in seconds),<br>k is the wavenumber (in radians per metre) and<br>ω is the angular frequency (in radians per second).<br>Characteristic phases of a water wave are:<br>the upward zero-crossing at θ = 0,<br>the wave crest at θ = ½ π,<br>the downward zero-crossing at θ = π and<br>the wave trough at θ = 1½ π.<br>A certain phase repeats itself after an integer m multiple of 2π: sin(θ) = sin(θ+m•2π).<br>Essential for water waves, and other wave phenomena in physics, is that free propagating waves of non-zero amplitude only exist when the angular frequency ω and wavenumber k (or equivalently the wavelength λ and period T ) satisfy a functional relationship: the frequency dispersion relation<br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>k<br>)<br>.<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ^{2}=\Omega ^{2}(k).\,}<br>The dispersion relation has two solutions: ω = +Ω(k) and ω = −Ω(k), corresponding to waves travelling in the positive or negative x–direction. The dispersion relation will in general depend on several other parameters in addition to the wavenumber k. For gravity waves, according to linear theory, these are the acceleration by gravity g and the water depth h. The dispersion relation for these waves is:<br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br>g<br><br>k<br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br>(<br>k<br><br>h<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega ^{2}=g\,k\,\tanh(k\,h)}<br><br>   or   <br><br><br><br><br>λ<br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br>h<br>λ<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>,<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle \lambda ={\frac {g}{2\pi }}\,T^{2}\,\tanh \left(2\pi \,{\frac {h}{\lambda }}\right),}<br>an implicit equation with tanh denoting the hyperbolic tangent function.<br>An initial wave phase θ = θ0 propagates as a function of space and time. Its subsequent position is given by:<br>x<br>=<br><br><br>λ<br>T<br><br><br><br>t<br>+<br><br><br>λ<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>0<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>ω<br>k<br><br><br><br>t<br>+<br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>0<br><br><br>k<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle x={\frac {\lambda }{T}}\,t+{\frac {\lambda }{2\pi }}\,\theta _{0}={\frac {\omega }{k}}\,t+{\frac {\theta _{0}}{k}}.}<br>This shows that the phase moves with the velocity:<br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>λ<br>T<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>ω<br>k<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>Ω<br>(<br>k<br>)<br><br>k<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}={\frac {\lambda }{T}}={\frac {\omega }{k}}={\frac {\Omega (k)}{k}},}<br>which is called the phase velocity.<br>Phase velocity[edit]<br>Further information: Phase velocity<br>Dispersion of gravity waves on a fluid surface. Phase and group velocity divided by shallow-water phase velocity √gh as a function of relative depth h / λ.Blue lines (A): phase velocity; Red lines (B): group velocity; Black dashed line (C): phase and group velocity √gh valid in shallow water.Drawn lines: dispersion relation valid in arbitrary depth.Dashed lines (blue and red): deep water limits.<br><br>Dispersion of gravity waves on a fluid surface. Phase and group velocity divided by deep-water phase velocity √gλ / (2π) as a function of relative depth h / λ.Blue lines (A): phase velocity; Red lines (B): group velocity; Black dashed line (C): phase and group velocity √gh valid in shallow water.Drawn lines: dispersion relation valid in arbitrary depth.Dashed lines (blue and red): deep water limits.<br>A sinusoidal wave, of small surface-elevation amplitude and with a constant wavelength, propagates with the phase velocity, also called celerity or phase speed. While the phase velocity is a vector and has an associated direction, celerity or phase speed refer only to the magnitude of the phase velocity. According to linear theory for waves forced by gravity, the phase speed depends on the wavelength and the water depth. For a fixed water depth, long waves (with large wavelength) propagate faster than shorter waves.<br>In the left figure, it can be seen that shallow water waves, with wavelengths λ much larger than the water depth h, travel with the phase velocity<br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br><br>(shallow water),<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}={\sqrt {gh}}\qquad \scriptstyle {\text{(shallow water),}}\,}<br>with g the acceleration by gravity and cp the phase speed. Since this shallow-water phase speed is independent of the wavelength, shallow water waves do not have frequency dispersion.<br>Using another normalization for the same frequency dispersion relation, the figure on the right shows that for a fixed wavelength λ the phase speed cp increases with increasing water depth. Until, in deep water with water depth h larger than half the  wavelength λ (so for h/λ  0.5), the phase velocity cp is independent of the water depth:<br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>g<br>λ<br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br><br>(deep water),<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}={\sqrt {\frac {g\lambda }{2\pi }}}={\frac {g}{2\pi }}T\qquad \scriptstyle {\text{(deep water),}}}<br>with T the wave period (the reciprocal of the frequency f, T=1/f ). So in deep water the phase speed increases with the wavelength, and with the period.<br>Since the phase speed satisfies cp = λ/T = λf, wavelength and period (or frequency) are related. For instance in deep water:<br>λ<br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>(deep water).<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \lambda ={\frac {g}{2\pi }}T^{2}\qquad \scriptstyle {\text{(deep water).}}}<br>The dispersion characteristics for intermediate depth are given below.<br>Group velocity[edit]<br><br>Further information: Group velocity<br>Frequency dispersion in bichromatic groups of gravity waves on the surface of deep water. The red square moves with the phase velocity, and the green circles propagate with the group velocity.   More ...   In this deep-water case, the phase velocity is twice the group velocity. The red square overtakes two green circles, when moving from the left to the right of the figure.New waves seem to emerge at the back of a wave group, grow in amplitude until they are at the center of the group, and vanish at the wave group front.For gravity surface-waves, the water particle velocities are much smaller than the phase velocity, in most cases.<br>Interference of two sinusoidal waves with slightly different wavelengths, but the same amplitude and propagation direction, results in a beat pattern, called a wave group. As can be seen in the animation, the group moves with a group velocity cg different from the phase velocity cp, due to frequency dispersion.<br>The group velocity is depicted by the red lines (marked B) in the two figures above.<br>In shallow water, the group velocity is equal to the shallow-water phase velocity. This is because shallow water waves are not dispersive. In deep water, the group velocity is equal to half the phase velocity: cg = ½ cp.<br>The group velocity also turns out to be the energy transport velocity. This is the velocity with which the mean wave energy is transported horizontally in a narrow-band wave field.<br>In the case of a group velocity different from the phase velocity, a consequence is that the number of waves counted in a wave group is different when counted from a snapshot in space at a certain moment, from when counted in time from the measured surface elevation at a fixed position. Consider a wave group of length Λg and group duration of τg. The group velocity is:<br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>Λ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>τ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{g}={\frac {\Lambda _{g}}{\tau _{g}}}.}<br>The number of waves per group as observed in space at a certain moment (upper blue line), is different from the number of waves per group seen in time at a fixed position (lower orange line), due to frequency dispersion.   More ...   For the shown case, a bichromatic group of gravity waves on the surface of deep water, the group velocity is half the phase velocity. In this example, there are 53⁄4 waves between two wave group nodes in space, while there are 111⁄2 waves between two wave group nodes in time.<br>North Pacific storm waves as seen from the NOAA M/V Noble Star, Winter 1989.<br>The number of waves in a wave group, measured in space at a certain moment is: Λg / λ. While measured at a fixed location in time, the number of waves in a group is: τg / T. So the ratio of the number of waves measured in space to those measured in time is:<br>No. of waves in space<br>No. of waves in time<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>Λ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>λ<br><br><br><br>τ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>T<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>Λ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>τ<br><br>g<br><br><br><br><br>⋅<br><br><br>T<br>λ<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\tfrac {\text{No. of waves in space}}{\text{No. of waves in time}}}={\frac {\Lambda _{g}/\lambda }{\tau _{g}/T}}={\frac {\Lambda _{g}}{\tau _{g}}}\cdot {\frac {T}{\lambda }}={\frac {c_{g}}{c_{p}}}.}<br>So in deep water, with cg = ½ cp, a wave group has twice as many waves in time as it has in space.<br>The water surface elevation η(x,t), as a function of horizontal position x and time t, for a bichromatic wave group of full modulation can be mathematically formulated as:<br>η<br>=<br>a<br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>x<br>−<br><br>ω<br><br>1<br><br><br>t<br><br>)<br><br>+<br>a<br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br>x<br>−<br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>t<br><br>)<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \eta =a\,\sin \left(k_{1}x-\omega _{1}t\right)+a\,\sin \left(k_{2}x-\omega _{2}t\right),}<br>with:<br>a the wave amplitude of each frequency component in metres,<br>k1 and k2 the wave number of each wave component, in radians per metre, and<br>ω1 and ω2 the angular frequency of each wave component, in radians per second.<br>Both ω1 and k1, as well as ω2 and k2, have to satisfy the dispersion relation:<br>ω<br><br>1<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega _{1}^{2}=\Omega ^{2}(k_{1})\,}<br><br>   and   <br><br><br><br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>Ω<br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br>.<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega _{2}^{2}=\Omega ^{2}(k_{2}).\,}<br>Using trigonometric identities, the surface elevation is written as:<br>η<br>=<br><br>[<br><br>2<br><br>a<br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br>x<br>−<br><br><br><br><br>ω<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br>t<br><br>)<br><br><br>]<br><br><br>⋅<br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>+<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br>x<br>−<br><br><br><br><br>ω<br><br>1<br><br><br>+<br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br>t<br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \eta =\left[2\,a\,\cos \left({\frac {k_{1}-k_{2}}{2}}x-{\frac {\omega _{1}-\omega _{2}}{2}}t\right)\right]\;\cdot \;\sin \left({\frac {k_{1}+k_{2}}{2}}x-{\frac {\omega _{1}+\omega _{2}}{2}}t\right).}<br>The part between square brackets is the slowly varying amplitude of the group, with group wave number ½ ( k1 − k2 ) and group angular frequency ½ ( ω1 − ω2 ). As a result, the group velocity is, for the limit k1 → k2 :<br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>=<br><br>lim<br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br><br>→<br><br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ω<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>lim<br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br><br>→<br><br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Ω<br>(<br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>)<br>−<br>Ω<br>(<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>k<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>Ω<br>(<br>k<br>)<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>k<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{g}=\lim _{k_{1}\,\to \,k_{2}}{\frac {\omega _{1}-\omega _{2}}{k_{1}-k_{2}}}=\lim _{k_{1}\,\to \,k_{2}}{\frac {\Omega (k_{1})-\Omega (k_{2})}{k_{1}-k_{2}}}={\frac {{\text{d}}\Omega (k)}{{\text{d}}k}}.}<br>Wave groups can only be discerned in case of a narrow-banded signal, with the wave-number difference k1 − k2 small compared to the mean wave number ½ (k1 + k2).<br>Multi-component wave patterns[edit]<br>Frequency dispersion of surface gravity waves on deep water. The superposition (dark blue line) of three sinusoidal wave components (light blue lines) is shown.   More ...   For the three components respectively 22 (bottom), 25 (middle) and 29 (top) wavelengths fit in a horizontal domain of 2,000 meter length. The component with the shortest wavelength (top) propagates slowest. The wave amplitudes of the components are respectively 1, 2 and 1 meter. The differences in wavelength and phase speed of the components results in a changing pattern of wave groups, due to amplification where the components are in phase, and reduction where they are in anti-phase.<br>The effect of frequency dispersion is that the waves travel as a function of wavelength, so that spatial and temporal phase properties of the propagating wave are constantly changing. For example, under the action of gravity, water waves with a longer wavelength travel faster than those with a shorter wavelength.<br>While two superimposed sinusoidal waves, called a bichromatic wave, have an envelope which travels unchanged, three or more sinusoidal wave components result in a changing pattern of the waves and their envelope. A sea state – that is: real waves on the sea or ocean – can be described as a superposition of many sinusoidal waves with different wavelengths, amplitudes, initial phases and propagation directions. Each of these components travels with its own phase velocity, in accordance with the dispersion relation. The statistics of such a surface can be described by its power spectrum.<br>Dispersion relation[edit]<br>In the table below, the dispersion relation ω = [Ω(k)] between angular frequency ω = 2π / T and wave number k = 2π / λ is given, as well as the phase and group speeds.<br>Frequency dispersion of gravity waves on the surface of deep water, shallow water and at intermediate depth, according to linear wave theory<br><br><br>quantity<br><br>symbol<br><br>units<br><br>deep water( h  ½ λ )<br><br>shallow water( h < 0.05 λ )<br><br>intermediate depth( all λ and h )<br><br><br>dispersion relation<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Ω<br>(<br>k<br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle \Omega (k)}<br><br><br><br>rad / s<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>g<br><br>λ<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt {gk}}={\sqrt {\frac {2\pi \,g}{\lambda }}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>λ<br><br><br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle k{\sqrt {gh}}={\frac {2\pi }{\lambda }}{\sqrt {gh}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>k<br>h<br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br>g<br><br>λ<br><br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br>h<br><br>λ<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}&{\sqrt {gk\,\tanh \left(kh\right)}}\,\\[1.2ex]&={\sqrt {{\frac {2\pi g}{\lambda }}\tanh \left({\frac {2\pi h}{\lambda }}\right)}}\,\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br><br><br>phase velocity<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>λ<br>T<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>ω<br>k<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle c_{p}={\frac {\lambda }{T}}={\frac {\omega }{k}}}<br><br><br><br>m / s<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br>ω<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt {\frac {g}{k}}}={\frac {g}{\omega }}={\frac {g}{2\pi }}T}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt {gh}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>k<br>h<br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt {{\frac {g}{k}}\tanh \left(kh\right)}}}<br><br><br><br><br>group velocity<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>∂<br>Ω<br><br><br>∂<br>k<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle c_{g}={\frac {\partial \Omega }{\partial k}}}<br><br><br><br>m / s<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>k<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>g<br>ω<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>4<br>π<br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{2}}{\sqrt {\frac {g}{k}}}={\frac {1}{2}}{\frac {g}{\omega }}={\frac {g}{4\pi }}T}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\sqrt {gh}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>1<br>+<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>h<br><br><br>sinh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>2<br>k<br>h<br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{2}}c_{p}\left(1+{\frac {2kh}{\sinh \left(2kh\right)}}\right)}<br><br><br><br><br>ratio<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>g<br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle {\frac {c_{g}}{c_{p}}}}<br><br><br><br>-<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle {\frac {1}{2}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle 1}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>1<br>+<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>h<br><br><br>sinh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>2<br>k<br>h<br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{2}}\left(1+{\frac {2kh}{\sinh \left(2kh\right)}}\right)}<br><br><br><br><br>wavelength<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>λ<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle \lambda }<br><br><br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {g}{2\pi }}T^{2}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>g<br>h<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle T{\sqrt {gh}}}<br><br><br><br>for given period T, the solution of: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>T<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br>g<br><br>λ<br><br><br>tanh<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br>h<br><br>λ<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \displaystyle \left({\frac {2\pi }{T}}\right)^{2}={\frac {2\pi g}{\lambda }}\tanh \left({\frac {2\pi h}{\lambda }}\right)}<br>Deep water corresponds with water depths larger than half the wavelength, which is the common situation in the ocean. In deep water, longer period waves  propagate faster and transport their energy faster. The deep-water group velocity is half the phase velocity. In shallow water, for wavelengths larger than twenty times the water depth, as found quite often near the coast, the group velocity is equal to the phase velocity.

### GROUND TRUTH 10, ranked not in top 100, shape_of_waves/Wave_shoaling2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Overview[edit]<br>Waves nearing the coast change wave height through different effects. Some of the important wave processes are refraction, diffraction, reflection, wave breaking, wave–current interaction, friction, wave growth due to the wind, and wave shoaling. In the absence of the other effects, wave shoaling is the change of wave height that occurs solely due to changes in mean water depth – without changes in wave propagation direction and dissipation. Pure wave shoaling occurs for long-crested waves propagating perpendicular to the parallel depth contour lines of a mildly sloping sea-bed. Then the wave height <br><br><br><br>H<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H}<br><br> at a certain location can be expressed as:<br>H<br>=<br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>0<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle H=K_{S}\;H_{0},}<br>with <br><br><br><br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle K_{S}}<br><br> the shoaling coefficient and <br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle H_{0}}<br><br> the wave height in deep water. The shoaling coefficient <br><br><br><br><br>K<br><br>S<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle K_{S}}<br><br> depends on the local water depth <br><br><br><br>h<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h}<br><br> and the wave frequency <br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f}<br><br> (or equivalently on <br><br><br><br>h<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h}<br><br> and the wave period <br><br><br><br>T<br>=<br>1<br><br>/<br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T=1/f}<br><br>). Deep water means that the waves are (hardly) affected by the sea bed, which occurs when the depth <br><br><br><br>h<br><br><br>{\displaystyle h}<br><br> is larger than about half the deep-water wavelength <br><br><br><br><br>L<br><br>0<br><br><br>=<br>g<br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>(<br>2<br>π<br>)<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle L_{0}=gT^{2}/(2\pi ).}
