# Query `14`

## Original Question

*Messing around on Google Earth recently I noticed a number of striations in the Eastern Pacific. These appear in an East-West orientation and seem to start on the North and South American continental shelves, and extend for roughly half the Pacific Ocean. For example one of these striations start in Santa Rosa Island off California and ends at Hawaii. These striations also appear to be roughly equally spaced at 8 degree intervals. The North and South American striations are angled with respect to each other and seem to converge at roughly Tahiti.

What causes these? I'm a fascinated novice.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0323
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.2500
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0781
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0781
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0081
map_cut_100: 0.0081
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) prime_meridian/6013825_0.txt
> The prime meridian is the imaginary line that divides Earth into two equal parts: the Eastern Hemisphere and the Western Hemisphere. The prime meridian is also used as the basis for the world’s time zones.The prime meridian appears on maps and globes. It is the starting point for the measuring system called longitude. Longitude is a system of imaginary north-south lines called meridians. They connect the North Pole to the South Pole. Meridians are used to measure distance in degrees east or west from the prime meridian. The prime meridian is 0°

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) ocean_continent_divergent_boundary/Mid-ocean_ridge8.txt
> part8 -------------------<br>List of mid-ocean ridges[edit]<br><br>Main category: Oceanic ridges<br>Aden Ridge – Part of an active oblique rift system in the Gulf of Aden, between Somalia and the Arabian Peninsula<br>Cocos Ridge – Pacific volcanic hotspotPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>Explorer Ridge – Mid-ocean ridge west of British Columbia, Canada<br>Galapagos Spreading Center - an east-west trending mid-ocean ridge east of the eponymous islands between the Nazca and Cocos plates<br>Gorda Ridge – Tectonic spreading center off the northern coast of California and southern Oregon<br>Juan de Fuca Ridge – Divergent plate boundary off the coast of the Pacific Northwest region of North America<br>South American–Antarctic Ridge – Mid-ocean ridge in the South Atlantic between the South American Plate and the Antarctic Plate<br>Chile Rise – Submarine oceanic ridge in the Pacific OceanPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>East Pacific Rise – A mid-oceanic ridge at a divergent tectonic plate boundary on the floor of the Pacific Ocean<br>Gakkel Ridge – Mid-oceanic ridge under the Arctic Ocean between the North American Plate and the Eurasian Plate(Mid-Arctic Ridge)<br>Pacific-Antarctic Ridge – Tectonic plate boundary in the South Pacific Ocean<br>Central Indian Ridge – A north-south-trending mid-ocean ridge in the western Indian Ocean<br>Carlsberg Ridge – Tectonic plate ridge<br>Southeast Indian Ridge – Mid-ocean ridge in the southern Indian Ocean<br>Southwest Indian Ridge – A mid-ocean ridge on the bed of the south-west Indian Ocean and south-east Atlantic Ocean<br>Mid-Atlantic Ridge – Atlantic Ocean tectonic plate boundary<br>Kolbeinsey Ridge – Segment of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge north of Iceland in the Arctic Ocean<br>Mohns Ridge – Geographical region in the Atlantic basin<br>Knipovich – Russian zoologistPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Ridge (between Greenland and Spitsbergen)<br>Reykjanes Ridge – Atlantic Ocean tectonic plate boundaryPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets (south of Iceland)<br>List of ancient oceanic ridges[edit]<br>Aegir Ridge – Extinct mid-ocean ridge in the far-northern Atlantic Ocean<br>Alpha Ridge – Major volcanic ridge under the Arctic Ocean<br>Kula-Farallon Ridge – Ancient mid-ocean ridge<br>Mid-Labrador Ridge – Mid-ocean ridge in the Labrador Sea<br>Pacific-Farallon Ridge – Spreading ridge during the Late Cretaceous<br>Pacific-Kula Ridge – Mid-ocean ridge between the Pacific and Kula plates in the Pacific Ocean during the Paleogene period<br>Phoenix Ridge – Ancient mid-ocean ridge between the Phoenix and Pacific platesPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) number_of_hadley_cell/Intertropical_Convergence_Zone4_0.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>South Pacific convergence zone[edit]<br>Vertical air velocity at 500 hPa, July average. Ascent (negative values) is concentrated close to the solar equator; descent (positive values) is more diffuse<br>The South Pacific convergence zone (SPCZ) is a reverse-oriented, or west-northwest to east-southeast aligned, trough extending from the west Pacific warm pool southeastwards towards French Polynesia. It lies just south of the equator during the Southern Hemisphere warm season, but can be more extratropical in nature, especially east

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) start_of_a_season/Season2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Causes and effects<br><br>Main article: Effect of sun angle on climate<br>Axial parallelism<br>Axial parallelism is a characteristic of the Earth (and most other orbiting bodies in space) in which the direction of the axis remains parallel to itself throughout its orbit.<br>The Earth's orbit exhibits approximate axial parallelism, maintaining its direction towards Polaris (the "North Star") year-round. This is one of the primary reasons for the Earth's seasons, as illustrated by the diagram to the right. Minor variation in the direction of the axis, known as axial precession, takes place over the course of 26,000 years, and therefore is not noticeable to modern human civilization.<br>Axial tilt<br>This diagram shows how the tilt of Earth's axis aligns with incoming sunlight around the winter solstice of the Northern Hemisphere. Regardless of the time of day (i.e. the Earth's rotation on its axis), the North Pole will be dark and the South Pole will be illuminated; see also arctic winter. In addition to the density of incident light, the dissipation of light in the atmosphere is greater when it falls at a shallow angle.<br>The seasons result from the Earth's axis of rotation being tilted with respect to its orbital plane by an angle of approximately 23.4 degrees. (This tilt is also known as "obliquity of the ecliptic".)<br>Regardless of the time of year, the northern and southern hemispheres always experience opposite seasons. This is because during summer or winter, one part of the planet is more directly exposed to the rays of the Sun than the other, and this exposure alternates as the Earth revolves in its orbit. For approximately half of the year (from around March 20 to around September 22), the Northern Hemisphere tips toward the Sun, with the maximum amount occurring on about June 21. For the other half of the year, the same happens, but in the Southern Hemisphere instead of the Northern, with the maximum around December 21. The two instants when the Sun is directly overhead at the Equator are the equinoxes. Also at that moment, both the North Pole and the South Pole of the Earth are just on the terminator, and hence day and night are equally divided between the two hemispheres. Around the March equinox, the Northern Hemisphere will be experiencing spring as the hours of daylight increase, and the Southern Hemisphere is experiencing autumn as daylight hours shorten.<br>The effect of axial tilt is observable as the change in day length and altitude of the Sun at solar noon (the Sun's culmination) during the year. The low angle of Sun during the winter months means that incoming rays of solar radiation are spread over a larger area of the Earth's surface, so the light received is more indirect and of lower intensity. Between this effect and the shorter daylight hours, the axial tilt of the Earth accounts for most of the seasonal variation in climate in both hemispheres.<br>Illumination of Earth by Sun at the northern solstice.<br><br><br><br>Illumination of Earth by Sun at the southern solstice.<br><br><br><br>Illumination of Earth at each change of astronomical season<br><br><br><br>Animation of Earth as seen daily from the Sun looking at UTC+02:00, showing the solstice and changing seasons.<br><br><br><br>Two images showing the amount of reflected sunlight at southern and northern summer solstices respectively (watts / m).<br>Elliptical Earth orbit<br>Compared to axial parallelism and axial tilt, other factors contribute little to seasonal temperature changes. The seasons are not the result of the variation in Earth's distance to the Sun because of its elliptical orbit. In fact, Earth reaches perihelion (the point in its orbit closest to the Sun) in January, and it reaches aphelion (the point farthest from the Sun) in July, so the slight contribution of orbital eccentricity opposes the temperature trends of the seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. In general, the effect of orbital eccentricity on Earth's seasons is a 7% variation in sunlight received.<br>Orbital eccentricity can influence temperatures, but on Earth, this effect is small and is more than counteracted by other factors; research shows that the Earth as a whole is actually slightly warmer when farther from the sun. This is because the Northern Hemisphere has more land than the Southern, and land warms more readily than sea.<br>Any noticeable intensification of southern winters and summers due to Earth's elliptical orbit is mitigated by the abundance of water in the Southern Hemisphere.<br>Maritime and hemispheric<br>Seasonal weather fluctuations (changes) also depend on factors such as proximity to oceans or other large bodies of water, currents in those oceans, El Niño/ENSO and other oceanic cycles, and prevailing winds.<br>In the temperate and polar regions, seasons are marked by changes in the amount of sunlight, which in turn often causes cycles of dormancy in plants and hibernation in animals. These effects vary with latitude and with proximity to bodies of water. For example, the South Pole is in the middle of the continent of Antarctica and therefore a considerable distance from the moderating influence of the southern oceans. The North Pole is in the Arctic Ocean, and thus its temperature extremes are buffered by the water. The result is that the South Pole is consistently colder during the southern winter than the North Pole during the northern winter.<br>The seasonal cycle in the polar and temperate zones of one hemisphere is opposite to that of the other. When it is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, it is winter in the Southern, and vice versa.<br>Tropics<br>Animation of seasonal differences especially snow cover through the year<br>The tropical and (to a lesser degree) subtropical regions see little annual fluctuation of sunlight and temperature due Earth's moderate 23.4-degree tilt being insufficient to appreciably affect the strength of the sun's rays annually. However, the slight differences between the solstices and the equinoxes are still enough to cause seasonal shifts to occur along a rainy, low-pressure belt called the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ICZ). As a result, the amount of precipitation tends to vary more dramatically than the average temperature. When the Zone is north of the Equator, the northern tropics experience their wet season while the southern tropics have their dry season. This pattern reverses when the Zone migrates to a position south of the Equator.<br>Mid-latitude thermal lag<br>In meteorological terms, the solstices (the maximum and minimum insolation) do not fall in the middles of summer and winter. The heights of these seasons occur up to 7 weeks later because of seasonal lag. Seasons, though, are not always defined in meteorological terms.<br>In astronomical reckoning by hours of daylight alone, the solstices and equinoxes are in the middle of the respective seasons. Because of seasonal lag due to thermal absorption and release by the oceans, regions with a continental climate, which predominate in the Northern Hemisphere, often consider these four dates to be the start of the seasons as in the diagram, with the cross-quarter days considered seasonal midpoints. The length of these seasons is not uniform because of Earth's elliptical orbit and its different speeds along that orbit.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) ocean_continent_divergent_boundary/Triple_junction6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Examples[edit]<br>The Nootka Fault at the triple junction of the North American Plate, the Explorer Plate, and the Juan de Fuca<br>The junction of the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden and the East African Rift centered in the Afar Triangle (the Afar Triple Junction) is the only Ridge-Ridge-Ridge (R-R-R) triple junction above sea level.<br>The Rodrigues Triple Junction is a R-R-R triple junction in the southern Indian Ocean, where the African, the Indo-Australian and the Antarctic Plates meet.<br>The Galapagos Triple Junction is an R-R-R triple junction where the Nazca, the Cocos, and the Pacific Plates meet. The East Pacific Rise extends north and south from this junction and the Galapagos Rise goes to the east. This example is made more complex by the Galapagos Microplate which is a small separate plate on the rise just to the southeast of the triple junction.<br>Chiapas coast off Tapachula where Guatemala, North America and Pacific join and small earthquakes occur weekly. This is pushed eastward by the Cocos plate.<br>On the west coast of North America is another unstable triple junction offshore of Cape Mendocino. To the south, the San Andreas Fault, a strike-slip fault and transform plate boundary, separates the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate. To the north lies the Cascadia subduction zone, where a section of the Juan de Fuca Plate called the Gorda Plate is being subducted under the North American Plate, forming a trench (T). Another transform fault, the Mendocino Fault (F), runs along the boundary between the Pacific Plate and the Gorda Plate. Where the three intersect is the seismically active, F-F-T Mendocino Triple Junction.<br>The Amurian Plate, the Okhotsk Plate, and the Philippine Sea Plate meet in Japan near Mount Fuji. (see Mount Fuji's Geology)<br>The Azores Triple Junction is a geologic triple junction where the boundaries of three tectonic plates intersect: the North American Plate, the Eurasian Plate and the African Plate, R-R-R.<br>The Boso Triple Junction offshore Japan is a T-T-T triple junction between the Okhotsk Plate, Pacific Plate and Philippine Sea Plate.<br>The North Sea is located at the extinct triple junction of three former continental plates of  the Palaeozoic era: Avalonia, Laurentia and Baltica.<br>The South Greenland Triple Junction was an R-R-R triple junction where the Eurasian, Greenland and North American plates diverged during the Paleogene.<br>The Chile Triple Junction is where the South American Plate, the Nazca Plate, and the Antarctic Plate meet.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, ridges_in_eastern_pacific_ocean/Fracture_zone1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>A fracture zone is a linear feature on the ocean floor—often hundreds, even thousands of kilometers long—resulting from the action of offset mid-ocean ridge axis segments. They are a consequence of plate tectonics.  Lithospheric plates on either side of an active transform fault move in opposite directions; here, strike-slip activity occurs.  Fracture zones extend past the transform faults, away from the ridge axis; are usually seismically inactive (because both plate segments are moving in the same direction), although they can display evidence of transform fault activity, primarily in the different ages of the crust on opposite sides of the zone.<br>In actual usage, many transform faults aligned with fracture zones are often loosely referred to as "fracture zones" although technically, they are not. They can be associated with other tectonic features and may be subducted or distorted by later tectonic activity. They are usually defined with bathymetric, gravity and magnetic studies.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, ridges_in_eastern_pacific_ocean/Fracture_zone2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Structure and formation[edit]<br>Mid-ocean ridges are divergent plate boundaries. As the plates on either side of an offset mid-ocean ridge move, a transform fault forms at the offset between the two ridges.<br>Fracture zones and the transform faults that form them are separate but related features. Transform faults are plate boundaries, meaning that on either side of the fault is a different plate. In contrast, outside of the ridge-ridge transform fault, the crust on both sides belongs to the same plate, and there is no relative motion along the junction.  The fracture zone is thus the junction between oceanic crustal regions of different ages.  Because younger crust is generally higher due to increased thermal buoyancy, the fracture zone is characterized by an offset in elevation with an intervening canyon that may be topographically distinct for hundreds or thousands of kilometers on the sea floor.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, ridges_in_eastern_pacific_ocean/Fracture_zone3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Geologic importance[edit]<br>As many areas of the ocean floor, particularly the Atlantic Ocean, are currently inactive, it can be difficult to find past plate motion. However, by observing the fracture zones, one can determine both the direction and rate of past plate motion. This is found by observing the patterns of magnetic striping on the ocean floor (a result of the reversals of Earth's magnetic field over time). By measuring the offset in the magnetic striping, one can then determine the rate of past plate motions. In a similar method, one can use the relative ages of the seafloor on either side of a fracture zone to determine the rate of past plate motions. By comparing how offset similarly aged seafloor is, one can determine how quickly the plate has moved.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 30, ridges_in_eastern_pacific_ocean/Fracture_zone4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Examples[edit]<br>Main article: List of fracture zones<br>Blanco Fracture Zone[edit]<br>Blanco Fracture Zone map<br>The Blanco Fracture Zone is a fracture zone running between the Juan de Fuca Ridge and the Gorda Ridge. The dominating feature of the fracture zone is the 150 km long Blanco Ridge, which is a high-angle, right-lateral strike slip fault with some component of dip-slip faulting.<br>Charlie-Gibbs Fracture Zone[edit]<br>Bathymetry map of the North Atlantic Ocean showing the full extent of the Charlie-Gibbs fracture zone (horizontal black lines in the center of the image)<br>The Charlie-Gibbs Fracture Zone consists of two fracture zones in the North Atlantic that extend for over 2000 km. These fracture zones displace the Mid-Atlantic Ridge a total of 350 km to the west. The section of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge between the two fracture zones is seismically active. The flow of major North Atlantic currents is associated with this fracture zone which hosts a diverse deep water ecosystem.<br>Heirtzler Fracture Zone[edit]<br>The Heirtzler Fracture Zone was approved by the Advisory Committee on Undersea Features in 1993.<br>Mendocino Fracture Zone[edit]<br>The Mendocino Fracture Zone extends for over 4,000 km off the coast of California and separates the Pacific Plate and Gorda Plate. The bathymetric depths on the north side of the fracture zone are 800 to 1,200 m shallower than to the south, suggesting the seafloor north of the ridge to be younger. Geologic evidence backs this up, as rocks were found to be 23 to 27 million years younger north of the ridge than to the south.<br>Romanche Fracture Zone[edit]<br>The Romanche Fracture Zone with red arrows indicating directions of movements of tectonic plates<br>Also known as the Romanche Trench, this fracture zone separates the North Atlantic and South Atlantic oceans. The trench reaches 7,758 m deep, is 300 km long, and has a width of 19 km. The fracture zone offsets the Mid-Atlantic Ridge by more than 640 km.<br>Sovanco Fracture Zone[edit]<br>The Sovanco Fracture Zone is a dextral-slip transform fault running between the Juan de Fuca and Explorer Ridge in the North Pacific Ocean. The fracture zone is 125 km long and 15 km wide.
