# Query `16`

## Original Question

*Egypt is planning to create a new delta on the left of the old one by building an artificial river that redirects agricultural waste water into the desert. The water should gradually turn the desert into land that's suitable for agriculture. Here's a video that explains the plan further.

This ambitious plan will cost around 9 billion euro's to complete. What I don't understand about it though is how simply redirecting water to a desert can turn it into arable land. The Egyptian desert consists of sandy soil and this soil type usually lacks the nutrients necessary for crops to grow. So how will this work?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0800
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0556
recall_10: 0.1111
recall_25: 0.1111
recall_50: 0.2222
recall_100: 0.2778
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1312
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1635
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1129
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1733
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1968
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0111
map_cut_10: 0.0296
map_cut_25: 0.0296
map_cut_50: 0.0417
map_cut_100: 0.0449
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) artificial_river/egypt_river1_35.txt
> -item even" itemprop="text"<p<strongEgypt is excavating the desert to construct the largest artificial river in the northwest region of the country</strong. This ambitious undertaking is an integral component of Egypt’s ‘New Delta’ project, located adjacent to the Dabaa nuclear power plant, <a href="https://www.egyptindependent.com/egypt-constructs-artificial-river-with-le-160-billion-parallel-to-nile-river/"Egypt Independent reports</a.</p<p

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) artificial_river/egypt_river1_41.txt
> ination of salty groundwater through 132 underground wells, and three water pumping stations,” he added.</p<div<pAccording to Sharaky, the primary hurdle at present is ensuring an adequate water supply, as the Nile's capacity for pumping the required volume is constrained by the limited fixed annual share of 55.5 billion cubic meters. Additionally, the high salinity of the groundwater poses further challenges.</p</div<pIn order to maximize the benefit from the artificial river, “we must focus on growing crops that thrive in the Egyptian desert lands with a high return for internal

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/Sea_level_rise2_101.txt
> build new ports elsewhere.[161][162] Some coastal regions are rich agricultural lands. Their loss to the sea could cause food shortages. This is a particularly acute issue for river deltas such as Nile Delta in Egypt and Red River and Mekong Deltas in Vietnam. Saltwater intrusion into the soil and irrigation water has a disproportionate effect on them.[163][164]<br><br>Ecosystems[edit]<br>See also: Extinction risk from climate change<br>Bramble Cay melomys, the first known mammal species to go extinct due to sea level rise.<br>Flood

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) artificial_river/egypt_river1_36.txt
> Abbas Sharaky, Professor of Water Resources and Irrigation, said that in recent years, <strongEgypt has significantly expanded its agricultural endeavors by embarking on various large-scale national projects</strong. One such project involves cultivating a staggering 1.5 million acres of land, primarily situated in the Western Desert, utilizing non-renewable groundwater at an impressive 80 percent capacity.</p<pThe country is also working on another project west of Alexandria, the New Delta, encompassing a vast cultivation area of 2.2 million acres. This expansive initiative relies on surface water

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) artificial_river/Soil_conditioner3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Purpose[edit]<br>Soil structure[edit]<br>The most common use of soil conditioners is to improve soil structure. Soils tend to become compacted over time.  Soil compaction impedes root growth, decreasing the ability of plants to take up nutrients and water. Soil conditioners can add more loft and texture to keep the soil loose.<br>Soil nutrients[edit]<br>For centuries people have been adding things to poor soils to improve their ability to support healthy plant growth. Some of these materials, such as compost, clay and peat, are still used extensively today. Many soil amendments also add nutrients such as carbon and nitrogen, as well as beneficial bacteria.<br>Additional nutrients, such as calcium, magnesium and phosphorus, may be augmented by amendments as well. This enriches the soil, allowing plants to grow bigger and stronger.<br>Cation exchange[edit]<br>Soil amendments can also greatly increase the cation exchange capacity (CEC) of soils. Soils act as the storehouses of plant nutrients. The relative ability of soils to store one particular group of nutrients, the cations. The most common soil cations are calcium, magnesium, potassium, ammonium, hydrogen, and sodium.<br>The total number of cations a soil can hold, its total negative charge, is the soil's cation exchange capacity. The higher the CEC, the higher the negative charge and the more cations that can be held and exchanged with plant roots, providing them with the nutrition they require.<br>Water retention[edit]<br>Soil conditioners may be used to improve water retention in dry, coarse soils which are not holding water well. The addition of organic material for instance can greatly improve the water retention abilities of sandy soils and they can be added to adjust the pH of the soil to meet the needs of specific plants or to make highly acidic or alkaline soils more usable. The possibility of using other materials to assume the role of composts and clays in improving the soil was investigated on a scientific basis earlier in the 20th century, and the term soil conditioning was coined. The criteria by which such materials are judged most often remains their cost-effectiveness, their ability to increase soil moisture for longer periods, stimulate microbiological activity, increase nutrient levels and improve plant survival rates.<br>The first synthetic soil conditioners were introduced in the 1950s, when the chemical hydrolysed polyacrylonitrile was the most used. Because of their ability to absorb several hundred times their own weight in water, polyacrylamides and polymethacrylates (also known as hydroabsorbent polymers, superabsorbent polymers or hydrogels) were tested in agriculture, horticulture and landscaping beginning in the 1960s.<br>Interest disappeared when experiments proved them to be phytotoxic due to their high acrylamide monomer residue. Although manufacturing advances later brought the monomer concentration down below the toxic level, scientific literature shows few successes in utilizing these polymers for increasing plant quality or survival. The appearance of a new generation of potentially effective tools in the early 1980s, including hydroabsorbent polymers and copolymers from the propenamide and propenamide-propenoate families, opened new perspectives.<br>Soil stabilization[edit]<br>In the context of construction there are some soil improvement techniques that are intended to improve the effective strength and resistance of very soft soils, for example when excavating deep tunnels for underground subway or tunnel construction. The soil stabilization technique of low pressure chemical permeation grouting has also been used for high rise foundation underpinning as an alternative to pile foundations at a residential development over the East River landfill. Pressure grouting can be difficult to apply correctly at sites with waste materials or heterogeneous and coarse soils.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Soil_conditioner1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>A soil conditioner is a product which is added to soil to improve the soil’s physical qualities, usually its fertility (ability to provide nutrition for plants) and sometimes its mechanics. In general usage, the term "soil conditioner" is often thought of as a subset of the category soil amendments (or soil improvement, soil condition), which more often is understood to include a wide range of fertilizers and non-organic materials. In the context of construction soil conditioning is also called soil stabilization.<br>Soil conditioners can be used to improve poor soils, or to rebuild soils which have been damaged by improper soil management. They can make poor soils more usable, and can be used to maintain soils in peak condition.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>Biomass is the mass of living biological organisms in a given area or ecosystem at a given time. Biomass can refer to species biomass, which is the mass of one or more species, or to community biomass, which is the mass of all species in the community. It can include microorganisms, plants or animals. The mass can be expressed as the average mass per unit area, or as the total mass in the community.<br>How biomass is measured depends on why it is being measured. Sometimes, the biomass is regarded as the natural mass of organisms in situ, just as they are. For example, in a salmon fishery, the salmon biomass might be regarded as the total wet weight the salmon would have if they were taken out of the water. In other contexts, biomass can be measured in terms of the dried organic mass, so perhaps only 30% of the actual weight might count, the rest being water. For other purposes, only biological tissues count, and teeth, bones and shells are excluded. In some applications, biomass is measured as the mass of organically bound carbon (C) that is present.<br>In 2018, Bar-On et al. estimated the total live biomass on Earth at about 550 billion (5.5×10) tonnes C, most of it in plants. In 1998 Field et.al. estimated the total annual net primary production of biomass at just over 100 billion tonnes C/yr. The total live biomass of bacteria was once thought to be about the same as plants, but recent studies suggest it is significantly less. The total number of DNA base pairs on Earth, as a possible approximation of global biodiversity, is estimated at (5.3±3.6)×10, and weighs 50 billion tonnes.  Anthropogenic mass (human-made material) is expected to exceed all living biomass on earth at around the year 2020.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 85, artificial_river/Soil_conditioner5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Ecological concerns[edit]<br>While adding a soil conditioner to crops or a garden can seem like a great way to get healthier plants, over-application of some amendments can cause ecological problems. For example, salts, nitrogen, metals and other nutrients that are present in many soil amendments are not productive when added in excess, and can actually be detrimental to plant health. (See fertilizer burn.) Runoff of excess nutrients into waterways also occurs, which is harmful to the water quality and, through it, the environment.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 37, artificial_river/Humus1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>In classical soil science, humus is the dark organic matter in soil that is formed by the decomposition of plant and animal matter. It is a kind of soil organic matter. It is rich in nutrients and retains moisture in the soil. Humus is the Latin word for "earth" or "ground".<br>In agriculture, "humus" sometimes also is used to describe mature or natural compost extracted from a woodland or other spontaneous source for use as a soil conditioner. It is also used to describe a topsoil horizon that contains organic matter (humus type, humus form, or humus profile).<br>Humus has many nutrients that improve the health of soil, nitrogen being the most important. The ratio of carbon to nitrogen (C:N) of humus commonly ranges between 8:1 and 15:1 with the median being about 12:1. It also significantly affects the bulk density of soil. Humus is amorphous and lacks the cellular structure characteristic of plants, microorganisms or animals.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Humus3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Humification[edit]<br>Microorganisms decompose a large portion of the soil organic matter into inorganic minerals that the roots of plants can absorb as nutrients. This process is termed "mineralization". In this process, nitrogen (nitrogen cycle) and the other nutrients (nutrient cycle) in the decomposed organic matter are recycled. Depending on the conditions in which the decomposition occurs, a fraction of the organic matter does not mineralize and instead is transformed by a process called "humification". Prior to modern analytical methods, early evidence led scientists to believe that humification resulted in concatenations of organic polymer resistant to the action of microorganisms, however recent research has demonstrated that microorganisms are capable of digesting humus.<br>Humification can occur naturally in soil or artificially in the production of compost. Organic matter is humified by a combination of saprotrophic fungi, bacteria, microbes and animals such as earthworms, nematodes, protozoa, and arthropods. Plant remains, including those that animals digested and excreted, contain organic compounds: sugars, starches, proteins, carbohydrates, lignins, waxes, resins, and organic acids. Decay in the soil begins with the decomposition of sugars and starches from carbohydrates, which decompose easily as detritivores initially invade the dead plant organs, while the remaining cellulose and lignin decompose more slowly. Simple proteins, organic acids, starches, and sugars decompose rapidly, while crude proteins, fats, waxes, and resins remain relatively unchanged for longer periods of time.<br>Lignin, which is quickly transformed by white-rot fungi, is one of the primary precursors of humus, together with by-products of microbial and animal activity. The humus produced by humification is thus a mixture of compounds and complex biological chemicals of plant, animal, or microbial origin that has many functions and benefits in soil. Some judge earthworm humus (vermicompost) to be the optimal organic manure.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Bacterial biomass[edit]<br>Bacteria and archaea are both classified as prokaryotes, and their biomass is commonly estimated together. The global biomass of prokaryotes is estimated at about 30 billion tonnes C, dominated by bacteria.<br>Geographic location<br><br>Number of cells (× 10)<br><br>Billion tonnes of carbon<br><br><br>Open ocean<br><br>1.2<br><br>1.6 to 2.2<br><br><br>Ocean subsurface<br><br>5<br><br>10<br><br><br>Terrestrial soil<br><br>3<br><br>8<br><br><br>Terrestrial subsurface<br><br>2 to 6<br><br>4 to 12<br><br><br>Total<br><br>11 to 15<br><br>23 to 31<br>The estimates for the global biomass of prokaryotes had changed significantly over recent decades, as more data became available. A much-cited study from 1998 collected data on abundances (number of cells) of bacteria and archaea in different natural environments, and estimated their total biomass at 350 to 550 billion tonnes C. This vast amount is similar to the biomass of carbon in all plants. The vast majority of bacteria and archaea were estimated to be in sediments deep below the seafloor or in the deep terrestrial biosphere (in deep continental aquifers). However, updated measurements reported in a 2012 study reduced the calculated prokaryotic biomass in deep subseafloor sediments from the original ≈300 billion tonnes C to ≈4 billion tonnes C (range 1.5-22 billion tonnes). This update originates from much lower estimates of both the prokaryotic abundance and their average weight.<br>A census published in PNAS in May 2018 estimated global bacterial biomass at ≈70 billion tonnes C, of which ≈60 billion tonnes are in the terrestrial deep subsurface. It also estimated the global biomass of archaea at ≈7 billion tonnes C. A later study by the Deep Carbon Observatory published in 2018 reported a much larger dataset of measurements, and updated the total biomass estimate in the deep terrestrial biosphere. It used this new knowledge and previous estimates to update the global biomass of bacteria and archaea to 23 - 31 billion tonnes C. Roughly 70% of the global biomass was estimated to be found in the deep subsurface. The estimated number of prokaryotic cells globally was estimated to be 11-15 × 10. With this information, the authors of the May 2018 PNAS article revised their estimate for the global biomass of prokaryotes to ≈30 billion tonnes C, similar to the Deep Carbon Observatory estimate.<br>These estimates convert global abundance of prokaryotes into global biomass using average cellular biomass figures that are based on limited data. Recent estimates used an average cellular biomass of about 20-30 femtogram carbon (fgC) per cell in the subsurface and terrestrial habitats.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked 4, artificial_river/Soil_conditioner3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Purpose[edit]<br>Soil structure[edit]<br>The most common use of soil conditioners is to improve soil structure. Soils tend to become compacted over time.  Soil compaction impedes root growth, decreasing the ability of plants to take up nutrients and water. Soil conditioners can add more loft and texture to keep the soil loose.<br>Soil nutrients[edit]<br>For centuries people have been adding things to poor soils to improve their ability to support healthy plant growth. Some of these materials, such as compost, clay and peat, are still used extensively today. Many soil amendments also add nutrients such as carbon and nitrogen, as well as beneficial bacteria.<br>Additional nutrients, such as calcium, magnesium and phosphorus, may be augmented by amendments as well. This enriches the soil, allowing plants to grow bigger and stronger.<br>Cation exchange[edit]<br>Soil amendments can also greatly increase the cation exchange capacity (CEC) of soils. Soils act as the storehouses of plant nutrients. The relative ability of soils to store one particular group of nutrients, the cations. The most common soil cations are calcium, magnesium, potassium, ammonium, hydrogen, and sodium.<br>The total number of cations a soil can hold, its total negative charge, is the soil's cation exchange capacity. The higher the CEC, the higher the negative charge and the more cations that can be held and exchanged with plant roots, providing them with the nutrition they require.<br>Water retention[edit]<br>Soil conditioners may be used to improve water retention in dry, coarse soils which are not holding water well. The addition of organic material for instance can greatly improve the water retention abilities of sandy soils and they can be added to adjust the pH of the soil to meet the needs of specific plants or to make highly acidic or alkaline soils more usable. The possibility of using other materials to assume the role of composts and clays in improving the soil was investigated on a scientific basis earlier in the 20th century, and the term soil conditioning was coined. The criteria by which such materials are judged most often remains their cost-effectiveness, their ability to increase soil moisture for longer periods, stimulate microbiological activity, increase nutrient levels and improve plant survival rates.<br>The first synthetic soil conditioners were introduced in the 1950s, when the chemical hydrolysed polyacrylonitrile was the most used. Because of their ability to absorb several hundred times their own weight in water, polyacrylamides and polymethacrylates (also known as hydroabsorbent polymers, superabsorbent polymers or hydrogels) were tested in agriculture, horticulture and landscaping beginning in the 1960s.<br>Interest disappeared when experiments proved them to be phytotoxic due to their high acrylamide monomer residue. Although manufacturing advances later brought the monomer concentration down below the toxic level, scientific literature shows few successes in utilizing these polymers for increasing plant quality or survival. The appearance of a new generation of potentially effective tools in the early 1980s, including hydroabsorbent polymers and copolymers from the propenamide and propenamide-propenoate families, opened new perspectives.<br>Soil stabilization[edit]<br>In the context of construction there are some soil improvement techniques that are intended to improve the effective strength and resistance of very soft soils, for example when excavating deep tunnels for underground subway or tunnel construction. The soil stabilization technique of low pressure chemical permeation grouting has also been used for high rise foundation underpinning as an alternative to pile foundations at a residential development over the East River landfill. Pressure grouting can be difficult to apply correctly at sites with waste materials or heterogeneous and coarse soils.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked 5, artificial_river/Humus6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Benefits of soil organic matter and humus[edit]<br>The importance of chemically stable humus is thought by some to be the fertility it provides to soils in both a physical and chemical sense, though some agricultural experts put a greater focus on other features of it, such as its ability to suppress disease. It helps the soil retain moisture by increasing microporosity and encourages the formation of good soil structure. The incorporation of oxygen into large organic molecular assemblages generates many active, negatively charged sites that bind to positively charged ions (cations) of plant nutrients, making them more available to the plant by way of ion exchange. Humus allows soil organisms to feed and reproduce and is often described as the "life-force" of the soil.<br>The process that converts soil organic matter into humus feeds the population of microorganisms and other creatures in the soil, and thus maintains high and healthy levels of soil life.<br>The rate at which soil organic matter is converted into humus promotes (when fast) or limits (when slow) the coexistence of plants, animals, and microorganisms in the soil.<br>Effective humus and stable humus are additional sources of nutrients for microbes: the former provides a readily available supply, and the latter acts as a long term storage reservoir.<br>Decomposition of dead plant material causes complex organic compounds to be slowly oxidized (lignin-like humus) or to decompose into simpler forms (sugars and amino sugars, and aliphatic and phenolic organic acids), which are further transformed into microbial biomass (microbial humus) or reorganized and further oxidized into humic assemblages (fulvic acids and humic acids), which bind to clay minerals and metal hydroxides. The ability of plants to absorb humic substances with their roots and metabolize them has been long debated. There is now a consensus that humus functions hormonally rather than simply nutritionally in plant physiology.<br>Humus is a colloidal substance and increases the cation-exchange capacity of soil, hence its ability to store nutrients by chelation. While these nutrient cations are available to plants, they are held in the soil and prevented from being leached by rain or irrigation.<br>Humus can hold the equivalent of 80–90% of its weight in moisture and therefore increases the soil's capacity to withstand drought.<br>The biochemical structure of humus enables it to moderate, i.e. buffer, excessive acidic or alkaline soil conditions.<br>During humification, microbes secrete sticky, gum-like mucilages; these contribute to the crumby structure (tilth) of the soil by adhering particles together and allowing greater aeration of the soil. Toxic substances such as heavy metals and excess nutrients can be chelated, i.e., bound to the organic molecules of humus, and so prevented from leaching away.<br>The dark, usually brown or black, color of humus helps to warm cold soils in spring.<br>Humus can contribute to climate change mitigation through its carbon sequestration potential. Artificial humic acid and artificial fulvic acid synthesized from agricultural litter can increase the content of dissolved organic matter and total organic carbon in soil.

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked 26, artificial_river/Soil_conditioner2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Composition[edit]<br>A wide variety of materials have been described as soil conditioners due to their ability to improve soil quality. Some examples include biochar, bone meal, blood meal, coffee grounds, compost, compost tea, coir, manure, straw, peat, sphagnum moss, vermiculite, sulfur, lime, hydroabsorbant polymers,  and biosolids.<br>Many soil conditioners come in the form of certified organic products, for people concerned with maintaining organic crops or organic gardens. Soil conditioners of almost every description are readily available from online stores or local nurseries as well as garden supply stores.<br>Polyacrylamides[edit]<br>Polyacrylamides have been widely investigated as soil conditioners. They  were introduced as "linear soil conditioner" in the 1950s by Monsanto Company under the trade name Krilium. The soil conditioning technology was presented at a symposium on "Improvement of Soil Structure" held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on December 29, 1951. The technology was strongly documented and was published in the June 1952 issue of the journal Soil Science, volume 73, June 1952 that was dedicated to polymeric soil conditioners. The original formulation of polyacrylamide soil conditioners was difficult to use because it contained calcium which cross-linked the linear polymer under field conditions. Krilium was abandoned by Monsanto. Water-soluble soil conditioners offer the following benefits:<br>increase pore space in soils containing clay<br>increase water infiltration into soils containing clay<br>prevent soil crusting<br>stop erosion and water runoff<br>make friable soil that is easy to cultivate<br>make soil dry quicker after rain or irrigation, so that the soil can be worked sooner<br>Consequently, these translate into<br>stronger, larger plants with more extensive root system<br>earlier seed emergence and crop maturity<br>more efficient water utilization<br>easier weed removal<br>more response to fertilizers and to new crop varieties<br>less plant diseases related to poor soil aeration<br>decreased energy requirement for tillage<br>The cross-linked forms of polyacrylamide, which strongly retain water, are often used for horticultural and agricultural under trade names such as Broadleaf P4 and Swell-Gel. In addition to use on farm lands, these polymers are used at construction sites for erosion control, in order to protect the water quality of nearby rivers and streams. As an nonionic monomer it can be co-polymerize with anionic for example Acrylic acid and cationic monomer such as diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride (DADMAC) and resulted co-polymer that can have different compatibility in different applications.<br>Polyacrylamide is also used in some potting soil. Another use of polyacrylamide is as a chemical intermediate in the production of N-methylol acrylamide and N-butoxyacrylamide.

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)7.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>Global rate of production[edit]<br>Globally, terrestrial and oceanic habitats produce a similar amount of new biomass each year (56.4 billion tonnes C terrestrial and 48.5 billion tonnes C oceanic).<br>Net primary production is the rate at which new biomass is generated, mainly due to photosynthesis. Global primary production can be estimated from satellite observations. Satellites scan the normalised difference vegetation index (NDVI) over terrestrial habitats, and scan sea-surface chlorophyll levels over oceans. This results in 56.4 billion tonnes C/yr (53.8%), for terrestrial primary production, and 48.5 billion tonnes C/yr for oceanic primary production. Thus, the total photoautotrophic primary production for the Earth is about 104.9 billion tonnes C/yr. This translates to about 426 gC/m/yr for land production (excluding areas with permanent ice cover), and 140 gC/m/yr for the oceans.<br>However, there is a much more significant difference in standing stocks—while accounting for almost half of total annual production, oceanic autotrophs account for only about 0.2% of the total biomass.<br>Terrestrial freshwater ecosystems generate about 1.5% of the global net primary production.<br>Some global producers of biomass in order of productivity rates are<br>Producer<br><br>Biomass productivity(gC/m/yr)<br><br>Ref<br><br>Total area(million km)<br><br>Ref<br><br>Total production(billion tonnes C/yr)<br><br><br>Swamps and marshes<br><br>2,500<br><br><br><br>5.7<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tropical rainforests<br><br>2,000<br><br><br><br>8<br><br><br><br>16<br><br><br>Coral reefs<br><br>2,000<br><br><br><br>0.28<br><br><br><br>0.56<br><br><br>Algal beds<br><br>2,000<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>River estuaries<br><br>1,800<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Temperate forests<br><br>1,250<br><br><br><br>19<br><br><br><br>24<br><br><br>Cultivated lands<br><br>650<br><br><br><br>17<br><br><br><br>11<br><br><br>Tundras<br><br>140<br><br><br><br>11.5-29.8<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Open ocean<br><br>125<br><br><br><br>311<br><br><br><br>39<br><br><br>Deserts<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>50<br><br><br><br>0.15

### GROUND TRUTH 10, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Global biomass[edit]<br>External image Visualizing the biomass of life<br>The total global biomass has been estimated at about 550 billion tonnes C. A breakdown of the global biomass is given by kingdom in the table below, based on a 2018 study by Bar-On et. al.<br>Kingdom<br><br>Global biomass in billion tonnes of carbon<br><br>Global dry biomass in billion tonnes<br><br>Global wet biomass in billion tonnes<br><br>Image<br><br><br>Plantae<br><br>450<br><br>900<br><br>2700<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Bacteria + Archaea<br><br>30<br><br>60<br><br>200<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Fungi<br><br>12<br><br>24<br><br>80<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Protista<br><br>4<br><br>8<br><br>25<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Animalia<br><br>2<br><br>4<br><br>13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Total<br><br>500<br><br>1000<br><br>3000<br>Humans and their livestock represent 96% of all mammals on earth in terms of biomass, whereas all wild mammals represent only 4%.<br>Animals represent less than 0.5% of the total biomass on Earth, with about 2 billion tonnes C in total. Most animal biomass is found in the oceans, where arthropods, such as copepods, account for about 1 billion tonnes C and fish for another 0.7 billion tonnes C. Roughly half of the biomass of fish in the world are mesopelagic, such as lanternfish,  spending most of the day in the deep, dark waters. Marine mammals such as whales and dolphins account for about 0.006 billion tonnes C.<br>Land animals account for about 500 million tonnes C, or about 20% of the biomass of animals on Earth. Terrestrial arthropods account for about 150 million tonnes C, most of which is found in the topsoil. Land mammals account for about 180 million tonnes C, most of which are humans (about 80 million tonnes C) and domesticated mammals (about 90 million tonnes C). Wild terrestrial mammals account for only about 3 million tonnes C, less than 2% of the total mammalian biomass on land.<br>The global biomass broken down by kingdom and into taxonomic groups for animals. The estimates for bacteria and archaea have been updated to 30 billion tonnes C combined since this figure was made.<br>Most of the global biomass is found on land, with only 5 to 10 billion tonnes C found in the oceans. On land, there is about 1,000 times more plant biomass (phytomass) than animal biomass (zoomass). About 18% of this plant biomass is eaten by the land animals. However, marine animals eat most of the marine autotrophs, and the biomass of marine animals is greater than that of marine autotrophs.<br>According to a 2020 study published in Nature, human-made materials, or anthropogenic mass, outweigh all living biomass on earth, with plastic alone exceeding the mass of all land and marine animals combined.<br>name<br><br>number of species<br><br>date of estimate<br><br>individual count<br><br>mean living mass of individual<br><br>percent biomass (dried)<br><br>global dry biomass in million tonnes<br><br>global wet (fresh) biomass in million tonnes<br><br><br>Terrestrial<br><br>Humans<br><br>1<br><br>November 2022<br><br>8 billion<br><br>50 kg(incl children)<br><br>40%<br><br>160<br><br>400<br><br><br>2005<br><br>4.63 billion adults<br><br>62 kg(excl. children)<br><br><br><br><br><br>287<br><br><br>Cattle<br><br>1<br><br>2021<br><br>1.5 billion<br><br>300 kg<br><br>30%<br><br>125<br><br>416<br><br><br>Sheep<br><br>1<br><br>2021<br><br>1.3 billion<br><br>30 kg<br><br>30%<br><br>12<br><br>39<br><br><br>Goats<br><br>1<br><br>2021<br><br>1.1 billion<br><br>30 kg<br><br>30%<br><br>10<br><br>32<br><br><br>Chickens<br><br>1<br><br>2021<br><br>26 billion<br><br>0.9 kg for broilers, 1.8 kg for layers<br><br>30%<br><br>8<br><br>25<br><br><br>Ants<br><br>15,700<br><br>2022<br><br>20-90×10<br><br>3.7 mg-5.5 mg<br><br>22.8%<br><br>10–100<br><br>40-450<br><br><br>Earthworms<br><br>7,000-30,000<br><br>2016<br><br><br><br>10 mg (dry weight)<br><br>10-25%<br><br>400<br><br>1,600<br><br><br>Termites<br><br>2,972<br><br>2022<br><br><br><br>2 mg<br><br>27%<br><br>100<br><br>440<br><br><br>Nematodes<br><br><br><br>2019<br><br>4.4×10<br><br><br><br>20%<br><br>60<br><br>300<br><br><br>Marine<br><br>Blue whales<br><br>1<br><br>Pre-whaling<br><br>340,000<br><br><br><br>40%<br><br><br><br>36<br><br><br>2023<br><br>50,000<br><br>60,000 kg<br><br>40%<br><br>1.2<br><br>3<br><br><br>Fish<br><br>20,000<br><br>2022<br><br><br><br><br><br>30%<br><br>3,000<br><br>9,000<br><br><br>Antarctic krill<br><br>1<br><br>2008<br><br>7.8×10<br><br>0.486 g<br><br><br><br><br><br>379 (in peak season)<br><br><br>Copepods(a zooplankton)<br><br> 13,000<br><br><br><br><br><br>10–10 kg <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Cyanobacteria(a picoplankton)<br><br>?<br><br>2003<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1,000

### GROUND TRUTH 11, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Humus2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Description[edit]<br>The primary materials needed for the process of humification are plant materials. The composition of humus varies dependent on the composition of the primary materials and the secondary microbial and animal products. The decomposition rate of the different compounds will affect the composition of the humus.<br>It is difficult to define humus precisely because it is a very complex substance which is not fully understood. Humus is different from decomposing soil organic matter. The latter looks rough and has visible remains of the original plant or animal matter. Fully humified humus, on the contrary, has a uniformly dark, spongy, and jelly-like appearance, and is amorphous; it may gradually decay over several years or persist for millennia. It has no determinate shape, structure, or quality. However, when examined under a microscope, humus may reveal tiny plant, animal, or microbial remains that have been mechanically, but not chemically, degraded. This suggests an ambiguous boundary between humus and soil organic matter. While distinct, humus is an integral part of soil organic matter.<br>There is little data available on the composition of forest humus because it is a complex mixture that is challenging for researchers to analyze. Researchers in the 1940s and 1960s tried using chemical separation to analyze plant and humic compounds in forest soil, but this proved impossible. Further research has been done in more recent years, though it remains an active field of study.

### GROUND TRUTH 12, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Terrestrial biomass[edit]<br>Relative terrestrial biomassesof vertebrates versus arthropods<br>Terrestrial biomass generally decreases markedly at each higher trophic level (plants, herbivores, carnivores). Examples of terrestrial producers are grasses, trees and shrubs. These have a much higher biomass than the animals that consume them, such as deer, zebras and insects. The level with the least biomass are the highest predators in the food chain, such as foxes and eagles.<br>In a temperate grassland, grasses and other plants are the primary producers at the bottom of the pyramid. Then come the primary consumers, such as grasshoppers, voles and bison, followed by the secondary consumers, shrews, hawks and small cats. Finally the tertiary consumers, large cats and wolves. The biomass pyramid decreases markedly at each higher level.<br>Changes in plant species in the terrestrial ecosystem can result in changes in the biomass of soil decomposer communities. Biomass in C3  and C4 plant species can change in response to altered concentrations of CO2. C3 plant species have been observed to increase in biomass in response to increasing concentrations of CO2 of up to 900 ppm.

### GROUND TRUTH 13, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Ecological pyramids[edit]<br>An energy pyramid illustrates how much energy is needed as it flows upward to support the next trophic level. Only about 10% of the energy transferred between each trophic level is converted to biomass.<br><br>Main article: Ecological pyramid<br>An ecological pyramid is a graphical representation that shows, for a given ecosystem, the relationship between biomass or biological productivity and trophic levels.<br>A biomass pyramid shows the amount of biomass at each trophic level.<br>A productivity pyramid shows the production or turn-over in biomass at each trophic level.<br>An ecological pyramid provides a snapshot in time of an ecological community.<br>The bottom of the pyramid represents the primary producers (autotrophs). The primary producers take energy from the environment in the form of sunlight or inorganic chemicals and use it to create energy-rich molecules such as carbohydrates. This mechanism is called primary production. The pyramid then proceeds through the various trophic levels to the apex predators at the top.<br>When energy is transferred from one trophic level to the next, typically only ten percent is used to build new biomass. The remaining ninety percent goes to metabolic processes or is dissipated as heat. This energy loss means that productivity pyramids are never inverted, and generally limits food chains to about six levels. However, in oceans, biomass pyramids can be wholly or partially inverted, with more biomass at higher levels.

### GROUND TRUTH 14, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Humus4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Stability[edit]<br>Much of the humus in most soils has persisted for more than 100 years, rather than having been decomposed into CO2, and can be regarded as stable; this organic matter has been protected from decomposition by microbial or enzyme action because it is hidden (occluded) inside small aggregates of soil particles, or tightly sorbed or complexed to clays.  Most humus that is not protected in this way is decomposed within 10 years and can be regarded as less stable or more labile.<br>Stable humus contributes few plant-available nutrients in soil, but it helps maintain its physical structure. A very stable form of humus is formed from the slow oxidation (redox) of soil carbon after the incorporation of finely powdered charcoal into the topsoil. This process is speculated to have been important in the formation of the unusually fertile Amazonian terra preta do Indio. However, recent work suggests that complex soil organic molecules may be much less stable than previously thought: “the available evidence does not support the formation of large-molecular-size and persistent ‘humic substances’ in soils. Instead, soil organic matter is a continuum of progressively decomposing organic compounds.″

### GROUND TRUTH 15, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Soil_conditioner4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Application[edit]<br>Soil conditioners may be applied in a number of ways. Some are worked into the soil with a tiller before planting. Others are applied after planting, or periodically during the growing season. Soil testing should be performed prior to applying a soil conditioner to learn more about the composition and structure of the soil. This testing will determine which conditioners will be more appropriate for the available conditions.

### GROUND TRUTH 16, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Biomass_(ecology)4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Ocean biomass[edit]<br>marine food chain(typical)<br>  Sun<br><br>↓<br><br>phytoplankton<br><br>↓<br><br>herbivorous zooplankton<br><br>↓<br><br>carnivorous zooplankton<br><br>↓<br><br>  filter feeder<br><br>↓<br><br>  predatory vertebrate<br><br>See also: Marine life<br>Ocean or marine biomass, in a reversal of terrestrial biomass, can increase at higher trophic levels. In the ocean, the food chain typically starts with phytoplankton, and follows the course:<br>Phytoplankton → zooplankton → predatory zooplankton → filter feeders → predatory fish<br>Ocean food web showing a network of food chains<br>Biomass pyramidsCompared to terrestrial biomass pyramids, aquatic pyramids are inverted at the base<br>Prochlorococcus, an influential bacterium<br>Phytoplankton are the main primary producers at the bottom of the marine food chain. Phytoplankton use photosynthesis to convert inorganic carbon into protoplasm. They are then consumed by zooplankton that range in size from a few micrometers in diameter in the case of protistan microzooplankton to macroscopic gelatinous and crustacean zooplankton.<br>Zooplankton comprise the second level in the food chain, and includes small crustaceans, such as copepods and krill, and the larva of fish, squid, lobsters and crabs.<br>In turn, small zooplankton are consumed by both larger predatory zooplankters, such as krill, and by forage fish, which are small, schooling, filter-feeding fish. This makes up the third level in the food chain.<br>A fourth trophic level can consist of predatory fish, marine mammals and seabirds that consume forage fish. Examples are swordfish, seals and gannets.<br>Apex predators, such as orcas, which can consume seals, and shortfin mako sharks, which can consume swordfish, make up a fifth trophic level. Baleen whales can consume zooplankton and krill directly, leading to a food chain with only three or four trophic levels.<br>Marine environments can have inverted biomass pyramids. In particular, the biomass of consumers (copepods, krill, shrimp, forage fish) is larger than the biomass of primary producers. This happens because the ocean's primary producers are tiny phytoplankton which are r-strategists that grow and reproduce rapidly, so a small mass can have a fast rate of primary production. In contrast, terrestrial primary producers, such as forests, are K-strategists that grow and reproduce slowly, so a much larger mass is needed to achieve the same rate of primary production.<br>Among the phytoplankton at the base of the marine food web are members from a phylum of bacteria called cyanobacteria. Marine cyanobacteria include the smallest known photosynthetic organisms. The smallest of all, Prochlorococcus, is just 0.5 to 0.8 micrometres across. In terms of individual numbers, Prochlorococcus is possibly the most plentiful species on Earth: a single millilitre of surface seawater can contain 100,000 cells or more. Worldwide, there are estimated to be several octillion (10) individuals. Prochlorococcus is ubiquitous between 40°N and 40°S and dominates in the oligotrophic (nutrient poor) regions of the oceans. The bacterium accounts for an estimated 20% of the oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere, and forms part of the base of the ocean food chain.

### GROUND TRUTH 17, ranked not in top 100, artificial_river/Humus5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Horizons[edit]<br>Humus has a characteristic black or dark brown color and is organic due to an accumulation of organic carbon. Soil scientists use the capital letters O, A, B, C, and E to identify the master horizons, and lowercase letters for distinctions of these horizons. Most soils have three major horizons: the surface horizon (A), the subsoil (B), and the substratum (C). Some soils have an organic horizon (O) on the surface, but this horizon can also be buried. The master horizon (E) is used for subsurface horizons that have significantly lost minerals (eluviation). Bedrock, which is not soil, uses the letter R.
