# Query `21`

## Original Question

*I remember Journey to the Center of Earth and wonder: What is the deepest in the Earth surface or below sea level we have traveled either by foot, sub, drill or camera?
*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0769
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1535
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1535
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1535
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0337
map_cut_50: 0.0337
map_cut_100: 0.0337
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) deepest_into_earth/china_hole2_14.txt
> 000"</path</svg</div<div class="ArticleImageCaption__CaptionWrapper"<p class="ArticleImageCaption__Title"The Shendi Take 1 drilling site in Xinjiang, China, in May 2023</p<p class="ArticleImageCaption__Credit"Xinhua/Shutterstock</p</div</figcaption</figure<p</p<br><pThis year, the China National Petroleum Corporation started drilling what will be the deepest hole in China and be among the deepest holes in the world, in the north-

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) mass_of_earth/innercore_mass1_217.txt
> Brandon et al., 1998; Walker, 2000</span).</p<p id="B978008095975700214X-p0030"Hidden below 2900<!-- --&nbsp;<!-- --km depth, the core is the least accessible layer of the Earth. While a spacecraft has reached the edge of the Solar System at several billion kilometers away from the Earth, the deepest hole drilled into the Earth is less than 14<!-- --&nbsp;<!-- --<spankm in depth, and <a href="/topics/earth-

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) sea_level_rising_factor/what_is_sea_level4_3.txt
> ? Well, water is held on Earth by gravity, so we could model the Earth as a flattened &amp; stretched spinning sphere and then calculate what height the oceans would settle to when pulled by gravity onto the surface of that ellipsoid. Except, the interior of the Earth doesn't have the same density everywhere, which means gravity is slightly stronger or weaker at different points around the globe, and the oceans tend to "puddle" nearer to the dense spots. These aren't small changes, either - the level of the sea can vary by up to 100m from a uniform ellip

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/8803_4.txt
> volcano in Ecuador, and not Mount Everest, is the peak that's actually farthest from the center of the Earth.<br>So, how do we know what sea level is? Well, water is held on Earth by gravity, so we could model the Earth as a flattened & stretched spinning sphere and then calculate what height the oceans would settle to when pulled by gravity onto the surface of that ellipsoid. Except, the interior of the Earth doesn't have the same density everywhere, which means gravity is slightly stronger or weaker at different points around the globe, and the oceans tend to "p

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/8803_2.txt
> aren't oceans? For example, when we say that Mt. Everest is 8850m above sea level, how do we know what sea level would be beneath Mt. Everest, since there's no sea for hundreds of kilometers? If the Earth were flat, then things would be easy - we'd just draw a straight line through the average height of the oceans and be done with it. But the Earth isn't flat.<br>If the Earth were spherical, it would be easy, too, because we could just measure the average distance from the center of the Earth to the surface of the ocean.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 12, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>Mponeng is a gold mine in South Africa's Gauteng province, it is an ultra-deep tabular mine of the Witwatersrand Basin. Previously known as Western Deep Levels #1 Shaft, the underground and surface works were commissioned in 1986.  It extends over 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) below the surface, and is considered to be one of the most substantial gold mines in the world. It is also currently the world's deepest mine from ground level, reaching a depth of 4 km (2.5 mi) below ground level, with aims to deepen the mine to reach additional reserves. The trip from the surface to the bottom of the mine takes over an hour. Mining in South Africa has had a huge effect on the technologies of deep gold mining around the world,  South Africa is even considered a pioneer of the trade.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>In popular culture[edit]<br>Millan Ludena, 'From Core to Sun'. Guinness World Record Holder. https://www.flickr.com/photos/asambleanacional<br>Released in 2010, the American television show 'Build it Bigger' (Powderhouse Productions) hosted by Danny Forster visited Mponeng Gold Mine.<br>Millan Ludeña, an Ecuadorian marathon runner, became the first person to run a half-marathon fully underground in the deepest part of Mponeng Gold Mine. A Guinness World Records adjudicator was on hand to document the race and issued the certificate for the deepest half-marathon. It was Millan's goal to run as far, and as close to sun as he could.  Later, after Mponeng, Millan run up Mt.Chimborazo in Ecuador. Millan has a movie called 'From Core to Sun' released in 2018 about his achievements.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>History and Operations[edit]<br>Harmony Gold, Africa's largest gold producer, purchased Mponeng from AngloGold Ashanti (AGA) in 2020, Harmony paid approximately $200 million. Harmony Gold also acquired Mine Waste Solutions as they gathered the remainder of AGA's assets in late 2020. As of 2022, all-in costs of production were US$1771/oz (US$1614/Troy oz). Even at near record high gold prices, Mponeng is barely breaking even. Gold is currently worth roughly US$2080/oz (US$1900/Troy oz). Over 5400 metric tons of rock are excavated from Mponeng each day.<br>The most recent publication from Harmony Gold outlines their 2023 year production:<br>Produced: 7449kg (239 490 oz) of gold<br>Grade: 8.43g/t<br>Volume of ore milled: 884 000 tons<br>History[edit]<br>Being a part of the Witwatersrand, the largest gold deposit on earth, Mponeng is the result of the discovery of the basin.  Beginning in the 1850-70s a series of discoveries were made, Pieter Jacob panning gold from a river and a Henry Lewis finding quartz and gold vein on a farm.   Mponeng officially began mining operations in 1986, near Carletonville.Before Mponeng, the mine was known as the Western Deep Levels South Shaft or the No1 Shaft, he name Mponeng came to be in 1999.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Seismicity[edit]<br>Seismicity in mines is common as removing mass amounts of rock can change stress dynamics, especially if pre-existing faults exist. This seismicity is termed 'mining-induced seismicity' are still the release of elastic strain but are often low moment magnitude.  Reaching beyond 1000 events a day, events of any size pose serious risk to mining operations and employees. It is not uncommon for equipment to be damaged, or have the collapse of drifts and stopes as a result of events.<br>On December 27, 2007 a dyke within Mponeng experienced a 1.9 magnitude event.  Caused by stress change due to excavation within the mine. In March of 2020 Mponeng experienced a magnitude 2 event, 3 were killed.In deep mines vertical stress can reach an astounding 80-100 MPa, equivalent to roughly 10km under water.  Seismicity in deep gold mines is common, and is often induced by mining activities.   2 events can be considered:<br>Type A - low moment magnitude (<1), clustered in time and space, within 100m of mining surface.<br>Induced by blasting, perturbation of excavating processes, closure of stopes.<br>Type B - possible higher moment magnitude (3), not clustered in time or space.<br>associated with friction dominated existing shear, tectonic earthquakes.<br>Most earthquakes at depth are mining related (Type A), typically associated with the beginning of a new stope.<br>Research[edit]<br>One way to move forward is a better understanding of rock burst and excavation methods. A better understanding can provide better safety protocols.  A prominent use of deep mines and their associated, often low magnitude, earthquakes is to connect laboratory scale experiments to real world situations.  There is also considerable research trying to understand nucleation of said earthquakes, and whether they work the same as larger earthquakes.  In Mponeng, JAGUARS (Japanese-German Acoustic Emissions Research in South Africa) has emplaced a network of accelerometers and piezoelectric acoustic emissions sensors. These sensors can record very small moment magnitude earthquakes, capable of recording events with frequencies from 0.7 kHz to 200 kHz (M<0.5).  In a one year period, 2007-2008,  nearly 500,000 events were recorded, most of which with low (sub 25 kHz) frequencies. The JAGUARS network in placed below the Ventersdorp Contact Reef, there are 8 Acoustic Emissions sensor, 2 strainmeters, and one triaxial accelerometer that make up the network.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Geology and gold bearing fractures[edit]<br>The mine sits in the Witwatersrand Basin and utilizes 2 horizons; Ventersdorp Contact Reef and Carbon Leader Reef. In the Mponeng mine the Ventersdorp Contact Reef is mainly interbedded quartzite and coarse conglomerates and constitutes only a meter or two of thickness. The Witwatersrand Basin has experienced many surges of thrusting, resulting in abundant fractures.  These small faults often correspond to depositional and sediment contacts.  This complicated geologic history associates with gold mineralization to a high degree, the Witwatersrand Basin holds nearly a third of gold reserves and is responsible for over 40% of all gold.<br>The gold mineralization is likely related to hydrothermal activity, and occurs in varying lithology of conglomerates, known as the reefs stated above. Thicknesses ranging from around 10cm to a 1-meter,  gold is found in pebble lags, stacked fluvial deposits, and other stratigraphy.  Mponeng specifically,  gold is associated with previously mentioned thrust fracturing and with the following mineralization's:<br>Steep quartz/sulphide-bearing fractures<br>Sub-horizontal quartz fractures<br>Sulphide-bearing fractures<br>Ultracataclastics<br>Mesophased hydrocarbons.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 15, deepest_into_earth/Mponeng_Gold_Mine3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Physical conditions[edit]<br>A colony of Desulforudis audaxviator, discovered in the Mponeng gold mine.. See article Without The Sun for details<br>The temperature of the rock reaches 66 °C (151 °F), and the mine pumps slurry ice underground to cool the tunnel air to below 30 °C (86 °F). A mixture of concrete, water, and rock is packed into excavated areas, which further acts as an insulator. Tunnel walls are secured by flexible shotcrete reinforced with steel fibers, which is further held in place by diamond-mesh netting.<br>In 2008, researchers looking for extremophile organisms discovered the bacterium Desulforudis audaxviator present within groundwater samples from kilometers deep in the mine. The name 'Audaxviator' comes from the popular novel "Journey to the Center of the Earth" (Jules Verne), which means 'descend, bold traveler, and attain the center of the Earth'.
