# Query `23`

## Original Question

*I have heard from many people that sinks do not empty in a particular pattern depending on what hemisphere you are in, but I have also heard from people who adamant that a sink of water would empty clockwise in one hemisphere and anti-clockwise in another.

While I acknowledge the above idea is probably a myth, is there any simple experiment that one can do do determine what hemisphere they are in, utilizing the Coriolis effect, or otherwise?

*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0385
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.2000
recall_100: 0.2000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0713
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0713
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0077
map_cut_100: 0.0077
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_of_tornadoes/Coriolis_force7.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>Applied to the Earth[edit]<br>The acceleration affecting the motion of air "sliding" over the Earth's surface is the horizontal component of the Coriolis term<br>−<br>2<br><br><br>ω<br>×<br>v<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle -2\,{\boldsymbol {\omega \times v}}}<br>This component is orthogonal to the velocity over the Earth surface and is given by the expression<br>ω<br><br>v<br> <br>2<br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>ϕ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega \,v\ 2\,\sin \phi }<br>where<br>ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega }<br><br> is the spin rate of the Earth<br><br><br><br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \phi }<br><br> is the latitude, positive in the northern hemisphere and negative in the southern hemisphere<br>In the northern hemisphere, where the latitude is positive, this acceleration, as viewed from above, is to the right of the direction of motion. Conversely, it is to the left in the southern hemisphere.<br>Rotating sphere[edit]<br>Coordinate system at latitude φ with x-axis east, y-axis north, and z-axis upward (i.e. radially outward from center of sphere)<br>Consider a location with latitude φ on a sphere that is rotating around the north–south axis. A local coordinate system is set up with the x axis horizontally due east, the y axis horizontally due north and the z axis vertically upwards. The rotation vector, velocity of movement and Coriolis acceleration expressed in this local coordinate system (listing components in the order east (e), north (n) and upward (u)) are:<br>Ω<br><br>=<br>ω<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {\Omega }}=\omega {\begin{pmatrix}0\\\cos \varphi \\\sin \varphi \end{pmatrix}}\ ,}<br><br>     <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>=<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>u<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {v}}={\begin{pmatrix}v_{e}\\v_{n}\\v_{u}\end{pmatrix}}\ ,}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>a<br><br><br>C<br><br><br>=<br>−<br>2<br><br>Ω<br>×<br>v<br><br>=<br>2<br><br>ω<br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br>−<br><br>v<br><br>u<br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {a}}_{C}=-2{\boldsymbol {\Omega \times v}}=2\,\omega \,{\begin{pmatrix}v_{n}\sin \varphi -v_{u}\cos \varphi \\-v_{e}\sin \varphi \\v_{e}\cos \varphi \end{pmatrix}}\ .}<br>When considering atmospheric or oceanic dynamics, the vertical velocity is small, and the vertical component of the Coriolis acceleration (<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{e}\cos \varphi }<br><br>) is small compared with the acceleration due to gravity (g, approximately 9.81 m/s (32.2 ft/s) near Earth's surface). For such cases, only the horizontal (east and north) components matter. The restriction of the above to the horizontal plane is (setting vu = 0):<br>v<br><br>=<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {v}}={\begin{pmatrix}v_{e}\\v_{n}\end{pmatrix}}\ ,}<br><br>     <br><br><br><br><br><br>a<br><br><br>c<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>f<br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {a}}_{c}={\begin{pmatrix}v_{n}\\-v_{e}\end{pmatrix}}\ f\ ,}<br>where <br><br><br><br>f<br>=<br>2<br>ω<br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle f=2\omega \sin \varphi \,}<br><br> is called the Coriolis parameter.<br>By setting vn = 0, it can be seen immediately that (for positive φ and ω) a movement due east results in an acceleration due south; similarly, setting ve = 0, it is seen that a movement due north results in an acceleration due east. In general, observed horizontally, looking along the direction of the movement causing the acceleration, the acceleration always is turned 90° to the right (for positive φ) and of the same size regardless of the horizontal orientation.<br>In the case of equatorial motion, setting φ = 0° yields:<br>Ω<br><br>=<br>ω<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {\Omega }}=\omega {\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\\0\end{pmatrix}}\ ,}<br><br>     <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>=<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>u<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {v}}={\begin{pmatrix}v_{e}\\v_{n}\\v_{u}\end{pmatrix}}\ ,}<br><br>     <br><br><br><br><br><br>a<br><br><br>C<br><br><br>=<br>−<br>2<br><br>Ω<br>×<br>v<br><br>=<br>2<br><br>ω<br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>u<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br> <br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {a}}_{C}=-2{\boldsymbol {\Omega \times v}}=2\,\omega \,{\begin{pmatrix}-v_{u}\\0\\v_{e}\end{pmatrix}}\ .}<br>Ω in this case is parallel to the north axis.<br>Accordingly, an eastward motion (that is, in the same direction as the rotation of the sphere) provides an upward acceleration known as the Eötvös effect, and an upward motion produces an acceleration due west.<br><br>For additional examples in other articles, see rotating spheres, apparent motion of stationary objects, and carousel.<br>Meteorology and oceanography[edit]<br>Due to the Coriolis force, low-pressure systems in the Northern hemisphere, like Typhoon Nanmadol (left), rotate counterclockwise, and in the Southern hemisphere, low-pressure systems like Cyclone Darian (right) rotate clockwise.<br>Schematic representation of flow around a low-pressure area in the Northern Hemisphere. The Rossby number is low, so the centrifugal force is virtually negligible. The pressure-gradient force is represented by blue arrows, the Coriolis acceleration (always perpendicular to the velocity) by red arrows<br>Schematic representation of inertial circles of air masses in the absence of other forces, calculated for a wind speed of approximately 50 to 70 m/s (110 to 160 mph).<br>Cloud formations in a famous image of Earth from Apollo 17, makes similar circulation directly visible<br>Perhaps the most important impact of the Coriolis effect is in the large-scale dynamics of the oceans and the atmosphere. In meteorology and oceanography, it is convenient to postulate a rotating frame of reference wherein the Earth is stationary. In accommodation of that provisional postulation, the centrifugal and Coriolis forces are introduced. Their relative importance is determined by the applicable Rossby numbers. Tornadoes have high Rossby numbers, so, while tornado-associated centrifugal forces are quite substantial, Coriolis forces associated with tornadoes are for practical purposes negligible.<br>Because surface ocean currents are driven by the movement of wind over the water's surface, the Coriolis force also affects the movement of ocean currents and cyclones as well. Many of the ocean's largest currents circulate around warm, high-pressure areas called gyres. Though the circulation is not as significant as that in the air, the deflection caused by the Coriolis effect is what creates the spiralling pattern in these gyres. The spiralling wind pattern helps the hurricane form. The stronger the force from the Coriolis effect, the faster the wind spins and picks up additional energy, increasing the strength of the hurricane.<br>Air within high-pressure systems rotates in a direction such that the Coriolis force is directed radially inwards, and nearly balanced by the outwardly radial pressure gradient. As a result, air travels clockwise around high pressure in the Northern Hemisphere and anticlockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. Air around low-pressure rotates in the opposite direction, so that the Coriolis force is directed radially outward and nearly balances an inwardly radial pressure gradient.<br>Flow around a low-pressure area[edit]<br><br>Main article: Low-pressure area<br>If a low-pressure area forms in the atmosphere, air tends to flow in towards it, but is deflected perpendicular to its velocity by the Coriolis force. A system of equilibrium can then establish itself creating circular movement, or a cyclonic flow. Because the Rossby number is low, the force balance is largely between the pressure-gradient force acting towards the low-pressure area and the Coriolis force acting away from the center of the low pressure.<br>Instead of flowing down the gradient, large scale motions in the atmosphere and ocean tend to occur perpendicular to the pressure gradient. This is known as geostrophic flow. On a non-rotating planet, fluid would flow along the straightest possible line, quickly eliminating pressure gradients. The geostrophic balance is thus very different from the case of "inertial motions" (see below), which explains why mid-latitude cyclones are larger by an order of magnitude than inertial circle flow would be.<br>This pattern of deflection, and the direction of movement, is called Buys-Ballot's law. In the atmosphere, the pattern of flow is called a cyclone. In the Northern Hemisphere the direction of movement around a low-pressure area is anticlockwise. In the Southern Hemisphere, the direction of movement is clockwise because the rotational dynamics is a mirror image there. At high altitudes, outward-spreading air rotates in the opposite direction. Cyclones rarely form along the equator due to the weak Coriolis effect present in this region.<br>Inertial circles[edit]<br>An air or water mass moving with speed <br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v\,}<br><br> subject only to the Coriolis force travels in a circular trajectory called an inertial circle. Since the force is directed at right angles to the motion of the particle, it moves with a constant speed around a circle whose radius <br><br><br><br>R<br><br><br>{\displaystyle R}<br><br> is given by:<br>R<br>=<br><br><br>v<br>f<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle R={\frac {v}{f}}}<br>where <br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f}<br><br> is the Coriolis parameter <br><br><br><br>2<br>Ω<br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 2\Omega \sin \varphi }<br><br>, introduced above (where <br><br><br><br>φ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \varphi }<br><br> is the latitude). The time taken for the mass to complete a full circle is therefore <br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>/<br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 2\pi /f}<br><br>. The Coriolis parameter typically has a mid-latitude value of about 10 s; hence for a typical atmospheric speed of 10 m/s (22 mph), the radius is 100 km (62 mi) with a period of about 17 hours. For an ocean current with a typical speed of 10 cm/s (0.22 mph), the radius of an inertial circle is 1 km (0.6 mi). These inertial circles are clockwise in the northern hemisphere (where trajectories are bent to the right) and anticlockwise in the southern hemisphere.<br>If the rotating system is a parabolic turntable, then <br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f}<br><br> is constant and the trajectories are exact circles. On a rotating planet, <br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f}<br><br> varies with latitude and the paths of particles do not form exact circles. Since the parameter <br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f}<br><br> varies as the sine of the latitude, the radius of the oscillations associated with a given speed are smallest at the poles (latitude of ±90°), and increase toward the equator.<br>Other terrestrial effects[edit]<br>The Coriolis effect strongly affects the large-scale oceanic and atmospheric circulation, leading to the formation of robust features like jet streams and western boundary currents. Such features are in geostrophic balance, meaning that the Coriolis and pressure gradient forces balance each other. Coriolis acceleration is also responsible for the propagation of many types of waves in the ocean and atmosphere, including Rossby waves and Kelvin waves. It is also instrumental in the so-called Ekman dynamics in the ocean, and in the establishment of the large-scale ocean flow pattern called the Sverdrup balance.<br>Eötvös effect[edit]<br><br>Main article: Eötvös effect<br>The practical impact of the "Coriolis effect" is mostly caused by the horizontal acceleration component produced by horizontal motion.<br>There are other components of the Coriolis effect. Westward-traveling objects are deflected downwards, while eastward-traveling objects are deflected upwards. This is known as the Eötvös effect. This aspect of the Coriolis effect is greatest near the equator. The force produced by the Eötvös effect is similar to the horizontal component, but the much larger vertical forces due to gravity and pressure suggest that it is unimportant in the hydrostatic equilibrium. However, in the atmosphere, winds are associated with small deviations of pressure from the hydrostatic equilibrium. In the tropical atmosphere, the order of magnitude of the pressure deviations is so small that the contribution of the Eötvös effect to the pressure deviations is considerable.<br>In addition, objects traveling upwards (i.e. out) or downwards (i.e. in) are deflected to the west or east respectively. This effect is also the greatest near the equator. Since vertical movement is usually of limited extent and duration, the size of the effect is smaller and requires precise instruments to detect. For example, idealized numerical modeling studies suggest that this effect can directly affect tropical large-scale wind field by roughly 10% given long-duration (2 weeks or more) heating or cooling in the atmosphere. Moreover, in the case of large changes of momentum, such as a spacecraft being launched into orbit, the effect becomes significant. The fastest and most fuel-efficient path to orbit is a launch from the equator that curves to a directly eastward heading.<br>Intuitive example[edit]<br>Imagine a train that travels through a frictionless railway line along the equator. Assume that, when in motion, it moves at the necessary speed to complete a trip around the world in one day (465 m/s). The Coriolis effect can be considered in three cases: when the train travels west, when it is at rest, and when it travels east. In each case, the Coriolis effect can be calculated from the rotating frame of reference on Earth first, and then checked against a fixed inertial frame. The image below illustrates the three cases as viewed by an observer at rest in a (near) inertial frame from a fixed point above the North Pole along the Earth's axis of rotation; the train is denoted by a few red pixels, fixed at the left side in the leftmost picture, moving in the others <br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>1<br><br> day<br><br><br><br>=<br>∧<br><br><br>8<br><br> s<br><br><br>)<br><br>:<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \left(1{\text{ day}}\mathrel {\overset {\land }{=}} 8{\text{ s}}\right):}<br>Earth and train<br>The train travels toward the west: In that case, it moves against the direction of rotation. Therefore, on the Earth's rotating frame the Coriolis term is pointed inwards towards the axis of rotation (down). This additional force downwards should cause the train to be heavier while moving in that direction.If one looks at this train from the fixed non-rotating frame on top of the center of the Earth, at that speed it remains stationary as the Earth spins beneath it. Hence, the only force acting on it is gravity and the reaction from the track. This force is greater (by 0.34%) than the force that the passengers and the train experience when at rest (rotating along with Earth). This difference is what the Coriolis effect accounts for in the rotating frame of reference.<br>The train comes to a stop: From the point of view on the Earth's rotating frame, the velocity of the train is zero, thus the Coriolis force is also zero and the train and its passengers recuperate their usual weight.From the fixed inertial frame of reference above Earth, the train now rotates along with the rest of the Earth. 0.34% of the force of gravity provides the centripetal force needed to achieve the circular motion on that frame of reference. The remaining force, as measured by a scale, makes the train and passengers "lighter" than in the previous case.<br>The train travels east. In this case, because it moves in the direction of Earth's rotating frame, the Coriolis term is directed outward from the axis of rotation (up). This upward force makes the train seem lighter still than when at rest.Graph of the force experienced by a 10-kilogram (22 lb) object as a function of its speed moving along Earth's equator (as measured within the rotating frame). (Positive force in the graph is directed upward. Positive speed is directed eastward and negative speed is directed westward). From the fixed inertial frame of reference above Earth, the train traveling east now rotates at twice the rate as when it was at rest—so the amount of centripetal force needed to cause that circular path increases leaving less force from gravity to act on the track. This is what the Coriolis term accounts for on the previous paragraph.As a final check one can imagine a frame of reference rotating along with the train. Such frame would be rotating at twice the angular velocity as Earth's rotating frame. The resulting centrifugal force component for that imaginary frame would be greater. Since the train and its passengers are at rest, that would be the only component in that frame explaining again why the train and the passengers are lighter than in the previous two cases.<br>This also explains why high-speed projectiles that travel west are deflected down, and those that travel east are deflected up. This vertical component of the Coriolis effect is called the Eötvös effect.<br>The above example can be used to explain why the Eötvös effect starts diminishing when an object is traveling westward as its tangential speed increases above Earth's rotation (465 m/s). If the westward train in the above example increases speed, part of the force of gravity that pushes against the track accounts for the centripetal force needed to keep it in circular motion on the inertial frame. Once the train doubles its westward speed at 930 m/s (2,100 mph) that centripetal force becomes equal to the force the train experiences when it stops. From the inertial frame, in both cases it rotates at the same speed but in the opposite directions. Thus, the force is the same cancelling completely the Eötvös effect. Any object that moves westward at a speed above 930 m/s (2,100 mph) experiences an upward force instead. In the figure, the Eötvös effect is illustrated for a 10-kilogram (22 lb) object on the train at different speeds. The parabolic shape is because the centripetal force is proportional to the square of the tangential speed. On the inertial frame, the bottom of the parabola is centered at the origin. The offset is because this argument uses the Earth's rotating frame of reference. The graph shows that the Eötvös effect is not symmetrical, and that the resulting downward force experienced by an object that travels west at high velocity is less than the resulting upward force when it travels east at the same speed.<br>Draining in bathtubs and toilets[edit]<br>Contrary to popular misconception, bathtubs, toilets, and other water receptacles do not drain in opposite directions in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. This is because the magnitude of the Coriolis force is negligible at this scale. Forces determined by the initial conditions of the water (e.g. the geometry of the drain, the geometry of the receptacle, preexisting momentum of the water, etc.) are likely to be orders of magnitude greater than the Coriolis force and hence will determine the direction of water rotation, if any. For example, identical toilets flushed in both hemispheres drain in the same direction, and this direction is determined mostly by the shape of the toilet bowl.<br>Under real-world conditions, the Coriolis force does not influence the direction of water flow perceptibly. Only if the water is so still that the effective rotation rate of the Earth is faster than that of the water relative to its container, and if externally applied torques (such as might be caused by flow over an uneven bottom surface) are small enough, the Coriolis effect may indeed determine the direction of the vortex. Without such careful preparation, the Coriolis effect will be much smaller than various other influences on drain direction such as any residual rotation of the water and the geometry of the container.<br>Laboratory testing of draining water under atypical conditions[edit]<br>In 1962, Ascher Shapiro performed an experiment at MIT to test the Coriolis force on a large basin of water, 2 meters (6 ft 7 in) across, with a small wooden cross above the plug hole to display the direction of rotation, covering it and waiting for at least 24 hours for the water to settle. Under these precise laboratory conditions, he demonstrated the effect and consistent counterclockwise rotation. The experiment required extreme precision, since the acceleration due to Coriolis effect is only <br><br><br><br>3<br>×<br><br>10<br><br>−<br>7<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle 3\times 10^{-7}}<br><br> that of gravity. The vortex was measured by a cross made of two slivers of wood pinned above the draining hole. It takes 20 minutes to drain, and the cross starts turning only around 15 minutes. At the end it is turning at 1 rotation every 3 to 4 seconds.<br>He reported that,<br>Both schools of thought are in some sense correct. For the everyday observations of the kitchen sink and bath-tub variety, the direction of the vortex seems to vary in an unpredictable manner with the date, the time of day, and the particular household of the experimenter. But under well-controlled conditions of experimentation, the observer looking downward at a drain in the northern hemisphere will always see a counter-clockwise vortex, while one in the southern hemisphere will always see a clockwise vortex. In a properly designed experiment, the vortex is produced by Coriolis forces, which are counter-clockwise in the northern hemisphere.<br>Lloyd Trefethen reported clockwise rotation in the Southern Hemisphere at the University of Sydney in five tests with settling times of 18 h or more.<br>Ballistic trajectories[edit]<br>The Coriolis force is important in external ballistics for calculating the trajectories of very long-range artillery shells. The most famous historical example was the Paris gun, used by the Germans during World War I to bombard Paris from a range of about 120 km (75 mi). The Coriolis force minutely changes the trajectory of a bullet, affecting accuracy at extremely long distances. It is adjusted for by accurate long-distance shooters, such as snipers. At the latitude of Sacramento, California, a 1,000 yd (910 m) northward shot would be deflected 2.8 in (71 mm) to the right. There is also a vertical component, explained in the Eötvös effect section above, which causes westward shots to hit low, and eastward shots to hit high.<br>The effects of the Coriolis force on ballistic trajectories should not be confused with the curvature of the paths of missiles, satellites, and similar objects when the paths are plotted on two-dimensional (flat) maps, such as the Mercator projection. The projections of the three-dimensional curved surface of the Earth to a two-dimensional surface (the map) necessarily results in distorted features. The apparent curvature of the path is a consequence of the sphericity of the Earth and would occur even in a non-rotating frame.<br>Trajectory, ground track, and drift of a typical projectile. The axes are not to scale.<br>The Coriolis force on a moving projectile depends on velocity components in all three directions, latitude, and azimuth. The directions are typically downrange (the direction that the gun is initially pointing), vertical, and cross-range.<br>A<br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br>=<br>−<br>2<br>ω<br>(<br><br>V<br><br><br>Y<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>a<br>z<br><br><br><br>+<br><br>V<br><br><br>Z<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {X} }=-2\omega (V_{\mathrm {Y} }\cos \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }\sin \phi _{\mathrm {az} }+V_{\mathrm {Z} }\sin \theta _{\mathrm {lat} })}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br><br>Y<br><br><br><br>=<br>2<br>ω<br>(<br><br>V<br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>a<br>z<br><br><br><br>+<br><br>V<br><br><br>Z<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>a<br>z<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {Y} }=2\omega (V_{\mathrm {X} }\cos \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }\sin \phi _{\mathrm {az} }+V_{\mathrm {Z} }\cos \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }\cos \phi _{\mathrm {az} })}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br><br>Z<br><br><br><br>=<br>2<br>ω<br>(<br><br>V<br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>−<br><br>V<br><br><br>Y<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br>cos<br>⁡<br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>a<br>z<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {Z} }=2\omega (V_{\mathrm {X} }\sin \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }-V_{\mathrm {Y} }\cos \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }\cos \phi _{\mathrm {az} })}<br>where<br>A<br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {X} }}<br><br>, down-range acceleration.<br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br><br>Y<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {Y} }}<br><br>, vertical acceleration with positive indicating acceleration upward.<br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br><br>Z<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle A_{\mathrm {Z} }}<br><br>, cross-range acceleration with positive indicating acceleration to the right.<br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>X<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle V_{\mathrm {X} }}<br><br>, down-range velocity.<br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>Y<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle V_{\mathrm {Y} }}<br><br>, vertical velocity with positive indicating upward.<br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>Z<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle V_{\mathrm {Z} }}<br><br>, cross-range velocity with positive indicating velocity to the right.<br><br><br><br><br>ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega }<br><br> = 0.00007292 rad/sec, angular velocity of the earth (based on a sidereal day).<br><br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br><br>l<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\mathrm {lat} }}<br><br>, latitude with positive indicating Northern hemisphere.<br><br><br><br><br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>a<br>z<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \phi _{\mathrm {az} }}<br><br>, azimuth measured clockwise from due North.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) eyes_of_tornadoes/extreme_weather3_20.txt
> precisely what path they will follow. Once a tornado is formed and has been detected, warnings can be issued based on the path of the storm producing the tornado, but even these cannot be perfectly precise about who will or will not be struck.</dd<br>				<dtWhat are the people called who study tornadoes?</dt<br>				<ddPeople who study tornadoes are just research meteorologists or atmospheric scientists. You may have heard another term—storm chaser—but that really refers to people who chase tornadoes and storms for a hobby.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) merged_hurricanes/Fujiwhara_effect2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Description[edit]<br>Diagram of the Fujiwhara effect, showing how 2 tropical cyclones interact with each other.<br>When cyclones are in proximity of one another, their centers will circle each other cyclonically (counter-clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere) about a point between the two systems due to their cyclonic wind circulations. The two vortices will be attracted to each other, and eventually spiral into the center point and merge. It has not been agreed upon whether this is due to the divergent portion of the wind or vorticity advection. When the two vortices are of unequal size, the larger vortex will tend to dominate the interaction, and the smaller vortex will circle around it. The effect is named after Sakuhei Fujiwhara, the Japanese meteorologist who initially described it in a 1921 paper about the motion of vortices in water.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) start_of_a_season/Season5_6.txt
> seasons determined according to local criteria that can vary from the hibernation of polar bears on the arctic tundras to the growing seasons of plants in the tropical rainforests.  In Australia, some tribes have up to eight seasons in a year, as do the Sami people in Scandinavia. Many indigenous people who no longer live directly off the land in traditional often nomadic styles, now observe modern methods of seasonal reckoning according to what is customary in their particular country or region.<br>The North American Cree and possibly other Algonquian speaking peoples used or still use a 6-season

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) colder_winter_after_solstice/Season5_6.txt
> seasons determined according to local criteria that can vary from the hibernation of polar bears on the arctic tundras to the growing seasons of plants in the tropical rainforests.  In Australia, some tribes have up to eight seasons in a year, as do the Sami people in Scandinavia. Many indigenous people who no longer live directly off the land in traditional often nomadic styles, now observe modern methods of seasonal reckoning according to what is customary in their particular country or region.<br>The North American Cree and possibly other Algonquian speaking peoples used or still use a 6-season


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, determine_hemisphere/Foucault_pendulum5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Foucault pendulums around the world[edit]<br><br>Further information: List of Foucault pendulums<br>There are numerous Foucault pendulums at universities, science museums, and the like throughout the world. The United Nations General Assembly Building at the United Nations headquarters in New York City has one. The Oregon Convention Center pendulum is claimed to be the largest, its length approximately 27 m (89 ft), however, there are larger ones listed in the article, such as the one in Gamow Tower at the University of Colorado (39.3 m). There used to be much longer pendulums, such as the 98 m (322 ft) pendulum in Saint Isaac's Cathedral, Saint Petersburg, Russia.<br>Foucault pendulum at the Musée des Arts et Métiers<br><br><br><br>Foucault pendulum at the Ranchi Science Centre<br><br><br><br>Foucault pendulum at the California Academy of Sciences<br><br><br><br>Foucault pendulum at the Devonshire Dome, University of Derby<br><br><br><br>Foucault's Pendulum in the stairwell of Franklin Institute (Photo taken on May 28, 2012)<br>South Pole[edit]<br>The experiment has also been carried out at the South Pole, where it was assumed that the rotation of the Earth would have maximum effect. A pendulum was installed in a six-story staircase of a new station under construction at the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. It had a length of 33 m (108 ft) and the bob weighed 25 kg (55 lb). The location was ideal: no moving air could disturb the pendulum. The researchers confirmed about 24 hours as the rotation period of the plane of oscillation.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, determine_hemisphere/Foucault_pendulum2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Original Foucault pendulum[edit]<br>A print of the Foucault Pendulum, 1895<br>Foucault Pendulum at COSI Columbus knocking over a ball<br>Foucault was inspired by observing a thin flexible rod on the axis of a lathe, which vibrated in the same plane despite the rotation of the supporting frame of the lathe.<br>The first public exhibition of a Foucault pendulum took place in February 1851 in the Meridian of the Paris Observatory. A few weeks later, Foucault made his most famous pendulum when he suspended a 28-kilogram (62 lb) brass-coated lead bob with a 67-metre long (220 ft) wire from the dome of the Panthéon, Paris.<br>Because the latitude of its location was <br><br><br><br>ϕ<br>=<br><br><br>48<br><br>∘<br><br><br><br>52<br>′<br><br>N<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \phi =\mathrm {48^{\circ }52'N} }<br><br>, the plane of the pendulum's swing made a full circle in approximately <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>23<br>h<br><br>56<br>′<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>ϕ<br><br><br><br>≈<br><br>31.8<br><br>h<br><br><br>(<br><br>31<br><br>h<br><br>50<br><br>m<br>i<br>n<br><br>)<br><br><br>{\textstyle {\frac {\mathrm {23h56'} }{\sin \phi }}\approx \mathrm {31.8\,h} \;(\mathrm {31\,h\,50\,min} )}<br><br>, rotating clockwise approximately 11.3° per hour. The proper period of the pendulum was approximately <br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br>l<br><br>/<br><br>g<br><br><br>≈<br>16.5<br><br><br>s<br><br><br><br>{\textstyle 2\pi {\sqrt {l/g}}\approx 16.5\,\mathrm {s} }<br><br>, so with each oscillation, the pendulum rotates by about <br><br><br><br>9.05<br>×<br><br>10<br><br>−<br>4<br><br><br><br>r<br>a<br>d<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle 9.05\times 10^{-4}\mathrm {rad} }<br><br>. Foucault reported observing 2.3 mm of deflection on the edge of a pendulum every oscillation, which is achieved if the pendulum swing angle is 2.1°.<br>Foucault explained his results in an 1851 paper entitled Physical demonstration of the Earth's rotational movement by means of the pendulum, published in the Comptes rendus de l'Académie des Sciences. He wrote that, at the North Pole:<br>...an oscillatory movement of the pendulum mass follows an arc of a circle whose plane is well known, and to which the inertia of matter ensures an unchanging position in space. If these oscillations continue for a certain time, the movement of the earth, which continues to rotate from west to east, will become sensitive in contrast to the immobility of the oscillation plane whose trace on the ground will seem animated by a movement consistent with the apparent movement of the celestial sphere; and if the oscillations could be perpetuated for twenty-four hours, the trace of their plane would then execute an entire revolution around the vertical projection of the point of suspension.<br>The original bob used in 1851 at the Panthéon was moved in 1855 to the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers in Paris. A second temporary installation was made for the 50th anniversary in 1902.<br>During museum reconstruction in the 1990s, the original pendulum was temporarily displayed at the Panthéon (1995), but was later returned to the Musée des Arts et Métiers before it reopened in 2000. On April 6, 2010, the cable suspending the bob in the Musée des Arts et Métiers snapped, causing irreparable damage to the pendulum bob and to the marble flooring of the museum. The original, now damaged pendulum bob is displayed in a separate case adjacent to the current pendulum display.<br>An exact copy of the original pendulum has been operating under the dome of the Panthéon, Paris since 1995.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, determine_hemisphere/Foucault_pendulum1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>The Foucault pendulum or Foucault's pendulum is a simple device named after French physicist Léon Foucault, conceived as an experiment to demonstrate the Earth's rotation. A long and heavy pendulum suspended from the high roof above a circular area was monitored over an extended time period, showing that its plane of oscillation rotated.<br>The pendulum was introduced in 1851 and was the first experiment to give simple, direct evidence of the Earth's rotation. Foucault followed up in 1852 with a gyroscope experiment to further demonstrate the Earth's rotation. Foucault pendulums today are popular displays in science museums and universities.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, determine_hemisphere/Foucault_pendulum4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Related physical systems[edit]<br>The device described by Wheatstone.<br>Many physical systems precess in a similar manner to a Foucault pendulum. As early as 1836, the Scottish mathematician Edward Sang contrived and explained the precession of a spinning top. In 1851, Charles Wheatstone described an apparatus that consists of a vibrating spring that is mounted on top of a disk so that it makes a fixed angle φ with the disk. The spring is struck so that it oscillates in a plane. When the disk is turned, the plane of oscillation changes just like the one of a Foucault pendulum at latitude φ.<br>Similarly, consider a nonspinning, perfectly balanced bicycle wheel mounted on a disk so that its axis of rotation makes an angle φ with the disk. When the disk undergoes a full clockwise revolution, the bicycle wheel will not return to its original position, but will have undergone a net rotation of 2π sin φ.<br>Foucault-like precession is observed in a virtual system wherein a massless particle is constrained to remain on a rotating plane that is inclined with respect to the axis of rotation.<br>Spin of a relativistic particle moving in a circular orbit precesses similar to the swing plane of Foucault pendulum. The relativistic velocity space in Minkowski spacetime can be treated as a sphere S in 4-dimensional Euclidean space with imaginary radius and imaginary timelike coordinate. Parallel transport of polarization vectors along such sphere gives rise to Thomas precession, which is analogous to the rotation of the swing plane of Foucault pendulum due to parallel transport along a sphere S in 3-dimensional Euclidean space.<br>In physics, the evolution of such systems is determined by geometric phases. Mathematically they are understood through parallel transport.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 25, determine_hemisphere/Foucault_pendulum3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Explanation of mechanics[edit]<br>Animation of a Foucault pendulum on the northern hemisphere, with the Earth's rotation rate and amplitude greatly exaggerated. The green trace shows the path of the pendulum bob over the ground (a rotating reference frame), while the bob moves in the corresponding vertical planes. The actual plane of swing appears to rotate relative to the Earth: sitting astride the bob like a swing, Coriolis fictitious force disappears: observer is in a "free rotational" reference. The wire should be as long as possible—lengths of 12–30 m (40–100 ft) are common.<br>At either the Geographic North Pole or Geographic South Pole, the plane of oscillation of a pendulum remains fixed relative to the distant masses of the universe while Earth rotates underneath it, taking one sidereal day to complete a rotation. So, relative to Earth, the plane of oscillation of a pendulum at the North Pole – viewed from above – undergoes a full clockwise rotation during one day; a pendulum at the South Pole rotates counterclockwise.<br>When a Foucault pendulum is suspended at the equator, the plane of oscillation remains fixed relative to Earth. At other latitudes, the plane of oscillation precesses relative to Earth, but more slowly than at the pole; the angular speed, ω (measured in clockwise degrees per sidereal day), is proportional to the sine of the latitude, φ:<br><br><br><br><br>ω<br>=<br><br>360<br><br>∘<br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>φ<br> <br><br>/<br><br><br>d<br>a<br>y<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega =360^{\circ }\sin \varphi \ /\mathrm {day} ,}<br><br><br>where latitudes north and south of the equator are defined as positive and negative, respectively. A "pendulum day" is the time needed for the plane of a freely suspended Foucault pendulum to complete an apparent rotation about the local vertical. This is one sidereal day divided by the sine of the latitude. For example, a Foucault pendulum at 30° south latitude, viewed from above by an earthbound observer, rotates counterclockwise 360° in two days.<br>Foucault pendulum animated<br>Using enough wire length, the described circle can be wide enough that the tangential displacement along the measuring circle of between two oscillations can be visible by eye, rendering the Foucault pendulum a spectacular experiment: for example, the original Foucault pendulum in Panthéon moves circularly, with a 6-metre pendulum amplitude, by about 5 mm each period.<br>A Foucault pendulum at the North Pole: The pendulum swings in the same plane as the Earth rotates beneath it.<br>An excerpt from the illustrated supplement of the magazine Le Petit Parisien dated November 2, 1902, on the 50th anniversary of the experiment of Léon Foucault demonstrating the rotation of the earth.<br>A Foucault pendulum requires care to set up because imprecise construction can cause additional veering which masks the terrestrial effect. Heike Kamerlingh Onnes (Nobel laureate 1913) performed precise experiments and developed a fuller theory of the Foucault pendulum for his doctoral thesis (1879). He observed the pendulum to go over from linear to elliptic oscillation in an hour. By a perturbation analysis, he showed that geometrical imperfection of the system or elasticity of the support wire may cause a beat between two horizontal modes of oscillation. The initial launch of the pendulum is also critical; the traditional way to do this is to use a flame to burn through a thread which temporarily holds the bob in its starting position, thus avoiding unwanted sideways motion (see a detail of the launch at the 50th anniversary in 1902).<br>Notably, veering of a pendulum was observed already in 1661 by Vincenzo Viviani, a disciple of Galileo, but there is no evidence that he connected the effect with the Earth's rotation; rather, he regarded it as a nuisance in his study that should be overcome with suspending the bob on two ropes instead of one.<br>Air resistance damps the oscillation, so some Foucault pendulums in museums incorporate an electromagnetic or other drive to keep the bob swinging; others are restarted regularly, sometimes with a launching ceremony as an added attraction. Besides air resistance (the use of a heavy symmetrical bob is to reduce friction forces, mainly air resistance by a symmetrical and aerodynamic bob) the other main engineering problem in creating a 1-meter Foucault pendulum nowadays is said to be ensuring there is no preferred direction of swing.<br>The animation describes the motion of a Foucault pendulum at a latitude of 30°N. The plane of oscillation rotates by an angle of −180° during one day, so after two days, the plane returns to its original orientation.
