# Query `25`

## Original Question

*Someone shared a video with me in which clouds were forming a ring around the Sun. I took this screen shot of that video:

What is the reason behind this?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1429
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0800
P_100: 0.0400
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.1000
recall_25: 0.3000
recall_50: 0.4000
recall_100: 0.4000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0734
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1806
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2259
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2259
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0143
map_cut_25: 0.0444
map_cut_50: 0.0586
map_cut_100: 0.0586
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) 22_halo/halo_season_33_114.txt
> young in India and you are looking in the next 30 years, you need to invest. <br<brSomeone asked me what is the best time to invest in India, I told him in my opinion the best time to invest was July 24th, 1991, which is the day Manmohan Singh gave the budget, the index of 1400, the Sensex I believe was around 1400 odd there and that day the cards were open. He knew that India was going to change and go to a better place and subsequent events have proved it completely right. The next best time to invest is today

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) mariana_trench/FWWtrenchsystem_htm3_9.txt
> 6) Lieutenant Bruce Bairnsfather, Bullets and Billets (1916)<br><br>An extraordinary sensation - the first time of going into trenches. The first idea that struck me about them was their haphazard design. There was, no doubt, some very excellent reason for someone making those trenches as they were; but they really did strike me as curious when I first saw them.<br>It was a long and weary night, that first one of mine in the trenches. Everything was strange and wet and horrid. First of all I had had to go and fix up my machine guns

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) moon_collided_with_earth/emm1_13.txt
> process in the<br>Orion Nebula, where star formation is presently going on. The<br>Sun was born 4’600 million years<br>ago in a collapsing interstellar<br>cloud that was dispersed long ago.<br>Once initiated, it took only a few<br>million years to form the Sun and<br>to allow the nuclear fusion process in its interior to start working<br>and hence for the Sun to shine.<br>As predicted by Pierre Laplace<br>early in the 19th century, a portion<br>of the gas and dust of the protosolar cloud remained in a rotating<br>disc from which the planets were

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) hurricanes_in_the_southern_Atlantic_basin/Hawker_Hurricane4_77.txt
> the next day, the Hurricane shot down a Tupolev SB bomber. Other encounters with Soviet fighters took place on 15 July above the Karelian Isthmus, with two I-153 claimed as being shot down. The last aircraft shot down by Finnish Hurricanes was an I-15 on 6 January 1942.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) hurricanes_in_the_southern_Atlantic_basin/Hawker_Hurricane4_39.txt
> although they were also protected with a layer of Linatex, were vulnerable from behind, and it was thought that those, and not the fuselage tank, were the main fire risk.<br>Groundcrew refuelling a Hurricane Mk.I of 32 Squadron, RAF Biggin Hill, Bromley, London, August 1940<br>From 10 July to 11 August 1940, RAF fighters fired at 114 German bombers and shot down 80, a destruction ratio of 70%. Against the Bf 109, the RAF fighters attacked 70 and shot down 54 of these, a ratio of 77%. It has been suggested that


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Other names[edit]<br>In the Cornish dialect of English, a halo around the sun or the moon is called a cock's eye and is an omen of bad weather. The term is related to the Breton word kog-heol (sun cock) which has the same meaning. In Nepal, the halo round the sun is called Indrasabha with a connotation of the assembly court of Lord Indra – the Hindu god of lightning, thunder, and rain.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 18, 22_halo/22%C2%B0_halo1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>A 22° halo is an atmospheric optical phenomenon that consists of a halo with an apparent radius of approximately 22° around the Sun or Moon. When visible around the Moon, it is also known as a moon ring, storm ring, or winter halo. It forms as sunlight or moonlight is refracted by millions of hexagonal ice crystals suspended in the atmosphere. Its radius, as viewed from Earth, is roughly the length of an outstretched hand at arm's length.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 13, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Bottlinger's ring[edit]<br>A Bottlinger's ring is a rare type of halo that is elliptical instead of circular. It has a small diameter, which makes it very difficult to see in the Sun's glare and more likely to be noticed around the dimmer subsun, often seen from mountain tops or airplanes. Bottlinger's rings are not well understood yet. It is suggested that they are formed by very flat pyramidal ice crystals with faces at uncommonly low angles, suspended horizontally in the atmosphere. These precise and physically problematic requirements would explain why the halo is very rare.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/22%C2%B0_halo3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Weather relation[edit]<br>22° solar halo with very thin cirrostratus clouds.<br>In folklore, moon rings are said to warn of approaching storms. Like other ice halos, 22° halos appear when the sky is covered by thin cirrus or cirrostratus clouds that often come a few days before a large storm front. However, the same clouds can also occur without any associated weather change, making a 22° halo unreliable as a sign of bad weather.<br>22° solar halo with parhelia and lower tangent arc.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Light pillar[edit]<br><br>Main article: Light pillar<br>A light pillar, or sun pillar, appears as a vertical pillar or column of light rising from the Sun near sunset or sunrise, though it can appear below the Sun, particularly if the observer is at a high elevation or altitude. Hexagonal plate- and column-shaped ice crystals cause the phenomenon. Plate crystals generally cause pillars only when the Sun is within 6 degrees of the horizon; column crystals can cause a pillar when the Sun is as high as 20 degrees above the horizon. The crystals tend to orient themselves near-horizontally as they fall or float through the air, and the width and visibility of a sun pillar depend on crystal alignment.<br>Light pillars can also form around the Moon, and around street lights or other bright lights. Pillars forming from ground-based light sources may appear much taller than those associated with the Sun or Moon. Since the observer is closer to the light source, crystal orientation matters less in the formation of these pillars.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>History[edit]<br>While Aristotle had mentioned halos and parhelia, in antiquity, the first European descriptions of complex displays were those of Christoph Scheiner in Rome (c. 1630), Johannes Hevelius in Danzig (1661), and Tobias Lowitz in St Petersburg (c. 1794).<br>Chinese observers had recorded these for centuries, the first reference being a section of the "Official History of the Chin Dynasty" (Chin Shu) in 637, on the "Ten Haloes", giving technical terms for 26 solar halo phenomena.<br>Vädersolstavlan[edit]<br>The so-called "Sun Dog Painting" (Vädersolstavlan) depicting Stockholm in 1535 and the celestial phenomenon at the time interpreted as an ominous presage<br>While mostly known and often quoted for being the oldest color depiction of the city of Stockholm, Vädersolstavlan (Swedish; "The Sundog Painting", literally "The Weather Sun Painting") is arguably also one of the oldest known depictions of a halo display, including a pair of sun dogs. For two hours in the morning of 20 April 1535, the skies over the city were filled with white circles and arcs crossing the sky, while additional suns (i.e., sun dogs) appeared around the Sun.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked 27, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>A halo (from Ancient Greek  ἅλως (hálōs) 'threshing floor, disk') is an optical phenomenon produced by light (typically from the Sun or Moon) interacting with ice crystals suspended in the atmosphere. Halos can have many forms, ranging from colored or white rings to arcs and spots in the sky. Many of these appear near the Sun or Moon, but others occur elsewhere or even in the opposite part of the sky. Among the best known halo types are the circular halo (properly called the 22° halo), light pillars, and sun dogs, but many others occur; some are fairly common while others are extremely rare.<br>The ice crystals responsible for halos are typically suspended in cirrus or cirrostratus clouds in the upper troposphere (5–10 km (3.1–6.2 mi)), but in cold weather they can also float near the ground, in which case they are referred to as diamond dust. The particular shape and orientation of the crystals are responsible for the type of halo observed. Light is reflected and refracted by the ice crystals and may split into colors because of dispersion. The crystals behave like prisms and mirrors, refracting and reflecting light between their faces, sending shafts of light in particular directions.<br>Atmospheric optical phenomena like halos were part of weather lore, which was an empirical means of weather forecasting before meteorology was developed. They often do indicate that rain will fall within the next 24 hours, since the cirrostratus clouds that cause them can signify an approaching frontal system.<br>Other common types of optical phenomena involving water droplets rather than ice crystals include the glory and the rainbow.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)7.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>Artificial halos[edit]<br>The natural phenomena may be reproduced artificially by several means. Firstly, by computer simulations, or secondly by experimental means. Regarding the latter, this occurs when a single crystal is rotated around the appropriate axis/axes, or a chemical approach. A still further and more indirect experimental approach is to find analogous refraction geometries.<br>Analogous refraction approach[edit]<br>Analogous refraction demonstration experiment for the circumzenithal arc. Here, it is mistakenly labelled as an artificial rainbow in Gilberts book.<br>This approach employs the fact that in some cases the average geometry of refraction through an ice crystal may be imitated / mimicked via the refraction through another geometrical object. In this way, the circumzenithal arc, the circumhorizontal arc, and the suncave Parry arcs may be recreated by refraction through rotationally symmetric (i.e. non-prismatic) static bodies. A particularly simple table-top experiment reproduces artificially the colorful circumzenithal and circumhorizontal arcs using a water glass only. The refraction through the cylinder of water turns out to be (almost) identical to the rotationally averaged refraction through an upright hexagonal ice crystal / plate-oriented crystals, thereby creating vividly colored circumzenithal and the circumhorizontal arcs. In fact, the water glass experiment is often confused as representing a rainbow and has been around at least since 1920.<br>Following Huygens' idea of the (false) mechanism of the 22° parhelia, one may also illuminate (from the side) a water-filled cylindrical glass with an inner central obstruction of half the glasses' diameter to achieve upon projection on a screen an appearance which closely resembles parhelia (cf. footnote [39] in Ref., or see here), an inner red edge transitioning into a white band at larger angles on both sides of the direct transmission direction. However, while the visual match is close, this particular experiment does not involve a fake caustic mechanism and is thus no real analogue.<br>Chemical approaches[edit]<br>The earliest chemical recipes to generate artificial halos has been put forward by Brewster and studied further by A. Cornu in 1889. The idea was to generate crystals by precipitation of a salt solution. The innumerable small crystals hereby generated will then, upon illumination with light, cause halos corresponding to the particular crystal geometry and the orientation / alignment. Several recipes exist and continue to be discovered. Rings are a common outcome of such experiments. But also Parry arcs have been artificially produced in this way.<br>Mechanical approaches[edit]<br>Single axis[edit]<br>The earliest experimental studies on halo phenomena have been attributed to Auguste Bravais in 1847. Bravais used an equilateral glass prism which he spun around its vertical axis. When illuminated by parallel white light, this produced an artificial parhelic circle and many of the embedded parhelia. Similarly, A. Wegener used hexagonal rotating crystals to produce artificial subparhelia. In a more recent version of this experiment, many more embedded parhelia have been found using commercially available hexagonal BK7 glass crystals. Simple experiments like these can be used for educational purposes and demonstration experiments. Unfortunately, using glass crystals one cannot reproduce the circumzenithal arc or the circumhorizontal arc due to total internal reflections preventing the required ray-paths when <br><br><br><br>n<br><<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle n<{\sqrt {2}}}<br><br>.<br>Even earlier than Bravais, the Italian scientist F. Venturi experimented with pointed water-filled prisms to demonstrate the circumzenithal arc. However, this explanation was replaced later by the CZA's correct explanation by Bravais.<br>Artificial Halo projected on a spherical screen. Visible are: Tangential arcs, Parry arcs, (sub)parhelia, parhelic circle, heliac arcs<br>Artificial ice crystals have been employed to create halos which are otherwise unattainable in the mechanical approach via the use of glass crystals, e.g. circumzenithal and circumhorizontal arcs. The use of ice crystals ensures that the generated halos have the same angular coordinates as the natural phenomena. Other crystals such as sodium fluoride (NaF) also have a refractive index close to ice and have been used in the past.<br>Two axes[edit]<br>In order to produce artificial halos such as the tangent arcs or the circumscribed halo one should rotate a single columnar hexagonal crystal about 2 axes. Similarly, the Lowitz arcs can be created by rotating a single plate crystal about two axes. This can be done by engineered halo machines. The first such machine was constructed in 2003; several more followed. Putting such machines inside spherical projection screens, and by the principle of the so-called sky transform, the analogy is nearly perfect. A realization using micro-versions of the aforementioned machines produces authentic distortion-free projections of such complex artificial halos. Finally, superposition of several images and projections produced by such halo machines may be combined to create a single image. The resulting superposition image is then a representation of complex natural halo displays containing many different orientation sets of ice prisms.<br>Three axes[edit]<br>The experimental reproduction of circular halos is the most difficult using a single crystal only, while it is the simplest and typically achieved one using chemical recipes. Using a single crystal, one needs to realize all possible 3D orientations of the crystal. This has recently been achieved by two approaches. The first one using pneumatics and a sophisticated rigging, and a second one using an Arduino-based random walk machine which stochastically reorients a crystal embedded in a transparent thin-walled sphere.

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked 6, 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Circular halo[edit]<br><br>Further information: 22° halo and 46° halo<br>Ice crystals (only four represented above) form the 22° halo, with red and blue light being refracted at slightly different angles<br>Among the best-known halos is the 22° halo, often just called "halo", which appears as a large ring around the Sun or Moon with a radius of about 22° (roughly the width of an outstretched hand at arm's length). The ice crystals that cause the 22° halo are oriented semi-randomly in the atmosphere, in contrast to the horizontal orientation required for some other halos such as sun dogs and light pillars. As a result of the optical properties of the ice crystals involved, no light is reflected towards the inside of the ring, leaving the sky noticeably darker than the sky around it, and giving it the impression of a "hole in the sky". The 22° halo is not to be confused with the corona, which is a different optical phenomenon caused by water droplets rather than ice crystals, and which has the appearance of a multicolored disk rather than a ring.<br>Other haloes can form at 46° to the Sun, or at the horizon, or around the zenith, and can appear as full haloes or incomplete arcs.

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked not in top 100, 22_halo/22%C2%B0_halo2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Formation[edit]<br>Pathway of light through a hexagonal prism in the optimal angle resulting in minimum deviation.<br>Path of the light from the clouds to the observer.<br>Even though it is one of the most common types of halo, the shape and orientation of the ice crystals responsible for the 22° halo are the topic of debate. Hexagonal, randomly oriented columns are usually put forward as the most likely candidate, but this explanation presents problems, such as the fact that the aerodynamic properties of such crystals leads them to be oriented horizontally rather than randomly. Alternative explanations include the involvement of clusters of bullet-shaped ice columns.<br>As light passes through the 60° apex angle of the hexagonal ice prisms, it is deflected twice, resulting in deviation angles ranging from 22° to 50°. Given the angle of incidence onto the hexagonal ice prism <br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>incidence<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\text{incidence}}}<br><br> and the refractive index inside the prism <br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br>, then the angle of deviation <br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>deviation<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\text{deviation}}}<br><br> can be derived from Snell's law:<br>θ<br><br>deviation<br><br><br>=<br><br>θ<br><br>incidence<br><br><br>+<br><br>sin<br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br>⁡<br><br>[<br><br>n<br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>π<br>3<br><br><br>−<br><br>sin<br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br>⁡<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>θ<br><br>incidence<br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>]<br><br>−<br><br><br>π<br>3<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\text{deviation}}=\theta _{\text{incidence}}+\sin ^{-1}\left[n\sin \left({\frac {\pi }{3}}-\sin ^{-1}{\frac {\sin \theta _{\text{incidence}}}{n}}\right)\right]-{\frac {\pi }{3}}.}<br>For <br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br> = 1.309, the angle of minimum deviation is almost 22° (21.76°, when <br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>incidence<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\text{incidence}}}<br><br> = 40.88°). More specifically, the angle of minimum deviation is 21.84° on average (<br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br> = 1.31); 21.54° for red light (<br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br> = 1.306) and 22.37° for blue light (<br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br> = 1.317). This wavelength-dependent variation in refraction causes the inner edge of the circle to be reddish while the outer edge is bluish.<br>The ice crystals in the clouds all deviate the light similarly, but only the ones from the specific ring at 22 degrees contribute to the effect for an observer at a set distance. As no light is refracted at angles smaller than 22°, the sky is darker inside the halo.<br>Another way to intuitively understand the formation of the 22° halo is to consider the following logic:<br>All rays from the Sun/Moon are incoming in a parallel manner towards the observer.<br>We can consider a specific case when the source is right on top of the sky.<br>Hexagonal water crystals can take on any orientation. But any rotation beyond 30° would be redundant when analyzing the angles subtended by the emerging rays. This means that for all the incoming vertical rays, we only need to consider incident angles in the range 30° to 60° that are incumbent on one edge of the hexagonal crystal; these are the ones that will reach the observer.<br>For the above range of incident angles, we can find the angle of the outgoing ray with respect to the vertical—which in fact is the angle subtended at the eye of the observer.<br>Outgoing ray angles (in the graphs on the right in the figure below) were obtained from the equation at the bottom. For a majority of rotation angles, the average of outgoing ray angles for red hovers around 22° and is slightly higher for blue.<br>Possible orientations of water crystals and resulting outgoing ray angles<br>Angle of rotation = <br><br><br><br>α<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \alpha }<br>θ<br>=<br><br>sin<br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br>⁡<br><br>[<br><br>n<br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>π<br>3<br><br><br>−<br><br>sin<br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br>⁡<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>π<br><br>/<br><br>3<br>−<br>α<br><br>)<br><br><br>n<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>]<br><br>−<br>α<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta =\sin ^{-1}\left[n\sin \left({\frac {\pi }{3}}-\sin ^{-1}{\frac {\sin \left(\pi /3-\alpha \right)}{n}}\right)\right]-\alpha .}<br>Another phenomenon resulting in a ring around the Sun or Moon—and therefore sometimes confused with the 22° halo—is the corona. Unlike the 22° halo, however, it is produced by water droplets instead of ice crystals and is much smaller and more colorful.
