# Query `30`

## Original Question

*I know that helium is a very light and rare gas on Earth because Earths gravity is not strong enough to keep it. Instead, helium and hydrogen are rising through the atmosphere and escape into outer space.

My question is: How massive would Earth have to be so that it could keep helium in the atmosphere? 2, 5, or 10 times the actual mass? Could we, for example, compare it to Neptune or Saturn?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.6000
P_10: 0.4000
P_25: 0.2400
P_50: 0.1200
P_100: 0.0600
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.1667
recall_10: 0.2222
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.5148
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4124
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3524
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3524
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3524
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0981
map_cut_10: 0.1352
map_cut_25: 0.1636
map_cut_50: 0.1636
map_cut_100: 0.1636
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) Archaeozoic_vs_Archean/Hadean4_10.txt
> Water molecules would have escaped Earth's gravity more easily when the planet was less massive during its formation. Photodissociation by short-wave ultraviolet in sunlight could split surface water molecules into oxygen and hydrogen, the former of which would be readily removed by the then-reducing atmosphere, while the latter (along with the similarly light helium) would be expected to continually leave the atmosphere (even to the present day) due to atmospheric escape.<br>Part of the ancient planet is theorized to have been disrupted by the impact that created the Moon, which should have caused the melting of one or two large

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Observations of exoplanet atmospheric escape[edit]<br>Studies of exoplanets have measured atmospheric escape as a means of determining atmospheric composition and habitability. The most common method is Lyman-alpha line absorption. Much as exoplanets are discovered using the dimming of a distant star's brightness (transit), looking specifically at wavelengths corresponding to hydrogen absorption describes the amount of hydrogen present in a sphere around the exoplanet. This method indicates that the hot Jupiters HD209458b and HD189733b and Hot Neptune GJ436b are experiencing significant atmospheric escape.<br>In 2018 it was discovered with the Hubble Space Telescope that atmospheric escape can also be measured with the 1083 nm Helium triplet. This wavelength is much more accessible from ground-based high-resolution spectrographs, when compared to the ultraviolet Lyman-alpha lines. The wavelength around the helium triplet has also the advantage that it is not severely affected by interstellar absorption, which is an issue for Lyman-alpha. Helium has on the other hand the disadvantage that it requires knowledge about the hydrogen-helium ratio to model the mass-loss of the atmosphere. Helium escape was measured around many giant exoplanets, including WASP-107b, WASP-69b and HD 189733b. It has also been detected around some mini-Neptunes, such as TOI-560 b and HD 63433 c.

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) g_needed/Atmospheric_escape6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Observations of exoplanet atmospheric escape[edit]<br>Studies of exoplanets have measured atmospheric escape as a means of determining atmospheric composition and habitability. The most common method is Lyman-alpha line absorption. Much as exoplanets are discovered using the dimming of a distant star's brightness (transit), looking specifically at wavelengths corresponding to hydrogen absorption describes the amount of hydrogen present in a sphere around the exoplanet. This method indicates that the hot Jupiters HD209458b and HD189733b and Hot Neptune GJ436b are experiencing significant atmospheric escape.<br>In 2018 it was discovered with the Hubble Space Telescope that atmospheric escape can also be measured with the 1083 nm Helium triplet. This wavelength is much more accessible from ground-based high-resolution spectrographs, when compared to the ultraviolet Lyman-alpha lines. The wavelength around the helium triplet has also the advantage that it is not severely affected by interstellar absorption, which is an issue for Lyman-alpha. Helium has on the other hand the disadvantage that it requires knowledge about the hydrogen-helium ratio to model the mass-loss of the atmosphere. Helium escape was measured around many giant exoplanets, including WASP-107b, WASP-69b and HD 189733b. It has also been detected around some mini-Neptunes, such as TOI-560 b and HD 63433 c.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) always_daytime/Solar_System2_54.txt
> planets or Jovian planets, collectively make up 99% of the mass known to orbit the Sun.[g] Jupiter and Saturn are together more than 400 times the mass of Earth and consist overwhelmingly of the gases hydrogen and helium, hence their designation as gas giants.[81] Uranus and Neptune are far less massive—less than 20 Earth masses each—and are composed primarily of ice. For these reasons, some astronomers suggest they belong in their own category, ice giants.[82] All four giant planets have rings, although only Saturn's ring system is easily observed from Earth. The term superior planet

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) g_needed/Atmospheric_escape5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Dominant atmospheric escape and loss processes in the Solar System[edit]<br>Earth[edit]<br>Atmospheric escape of hydrogen on Earth is due to charge exchange escape (~60–90%), Jeans escape (~10–40%), and polar wind escape (~10–15%), currently losing about 3 kg/s of hydrogen. The Earth additionally loses approximately 50 g/s of helium primarily through polar wind escape. Escape of other atmospheric constituents is much smaller. A Japanese research team in 2017 found evidence of a small number of oxygen ions on the moon that came from the Earth.<br>In 1 billion years, the Sun will be 10% brighter than it is now, making it hot enough for Earth to lose enough hydrogen to space to cause it to lose all of its water (See Future of Earth#Loss of oceans).<br>Venus[edit]<br>Recent models indicate that hydrogen escape on Venus is almost entirely due to suprathermal mechanisms, primarily photochemical reactions and charge exchange with the solar wind. Oxygen escape is dominated by charge exchange and sputtering escape. Venus Express measured the effect of coronal mass ejections on the rate of atmospheric escape of Venus, and researchers found a factor of 1.9 increase in escape rate during periods of increased coronal mass ejections compared with calmer space weather.<br>Mars[edit]<br>Primordial Mars also suffered from the cumulative effects of multiple small impact erosion events, and recent observations with MAVEN suggest that 66% of the Ar in the Martian atmosphere has been lost over the last 4 billion years due to suprathermal escape, and the amount of CO2 lost over the same time period is around 0.5 bar or more.<br>The MAVEN mission has also explored the current rate of atmospheric escape of Mars. Jeans escape plays an important role in the continued escape of hydrogen on Mars, contributing to a loss rate that varies between 160 - 1800 g/s. Jeans escape of hydrogen can be significantly modulated by lower atmospheric processes, such as gravity waves, convection, and dust storms. Oxygen loss is dominated by suprathermal methods:  photochemical (~1300 g/s), charge exchange (~130 g/s), and sputtering (~80 g/s) escape combine for a total loss rate of ~1500 g/s. Other heavy atoms, such as carbon and nitrogen, are primarily lost due to photochemical reactions and interactions with the solar wind.<br>Titan and Io[edit]<br>Saturn's moon Titan and Jupiter's moon Io have atmospheres and are subject to atmospheric loss processes. They have no magnetic fields of their own, but orbit planets with powerful magnetic fields, which protects a given moon from the solar wind when its orbit is within the bow shock. However Titan spends roughly half of its orbital period outside of the bow-shock, subjected to unimpeded solar winds. The kinetic energy gained from pick-up and sputtering associated with the solar winds increases thermal escape throughout the orbit of Titan, causing neutral hydrogen to escape. The escaped hydrogen maintains an orbit following in the wake of Titan, creating a neutral hydrogen torus around Saturn. Io, in its orbit around Jupiter, encounters a plasma cloud. Interaction with the plasma cloud induces sputtering, kicking off sodium particles. The interaction produces a stationary banana-shaped charged sodium cloud along a part of the orbit of Io.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Relaxation to the 2D Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution[edit]<br>For particles confined to move in a plane, the speed distribution is given by<br>P<br>(<br>s<br><<br><br>|<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>|<br><br><<br>s<br>+<br>d<br>s<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>m<br>s<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>s<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>d<br>s<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P(s<|{\vec {v}}|<s+ds)={\frac {ms}{kT}}\exp \left(-{\frac {ms^{2}}{2kT}}\right)ds}<br>This distribution is used for describing systems in equilibrium. However, most systems do not start out in their equilibrium state. The evolution of a system towards its equilibrium state is governed by the Boltzmann equation. The equation predicts that for short range interactions, the equilibrium velocity distribution will follow a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution. To the right is a molecular dynamics (MD) simulation in which 900 hard sphere particles are constrained to move in a rectangle. They interact via perfectly elastic collisions. The system is initialized out of equilibrium, but the velocity distribution (in blue) quickly converges to the 2D Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution (in orange).

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>Atmospheric escape is the loss of planetary atmospheric gases to outer space. A number of different mechanisms can be responsible for atmospheric escape; these processes can be divided into thermal escape, non-thermal (or suprathermal) escape, and impact erosion. The relative importance of each loss process depends on the planet's escape velocity, its atmosphere composition, and its distance from its star. Escape occurs when molecular kinetic energy overcomes gravitational energy; in other words, a molecule can escape when it is moving faster than the escape velocity of its planet. Categorizing the rate of atmospheric escape in exoplanets is necessary to determining whether an atmosphere persists, and so the exoplanet's habitability and likelihood of life.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Impact erosion[edit]<br>The impact of a large meteoroid can lead to the loss of atmosphere. If a collision is sufficiently energetic, it is possible for ejecta, including atmospheric molecules, to reach escape velocity.<br>In order to have a significant effect on atmospheric escape, the radius of the impacting body must be larger than the scale height. The projectile can impart momentum, and thereby facilitate escape of the atmosphere, in three main ways: (a) the meteoroid heats and accelerates the gas it encounters as it travels through the atmosphere, (b) solid ejecta from the impact crater heat atmospheric particles through drag as they are ejected, and (c) the impact creates vapor which expands away from the surface. In the first case, the heated gas can escape in a manner similar to hydrodynamic escape, albeit on a more localized scale. Most of the escape from impact erosion occurs due to the third case. The maximum atmosphere that can be ejected is above a plane tangent to the impact site.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Limitations[edit]<br>The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution assumes that the velocities of individual particles are much less than the speed of light, i.e. that <br><br><br><br>T<br>≪<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>c<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>B<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle T\ll {\frac {mc^{2}}{k_{B}}}}<br><br>. For electrons, the temperature of electrons must be <br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br>e<br><br><br>≪<br>5.93<br>×<br><br>10<br><br>9<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle T_{e}\ll 5.93\times 10^{9}}<br><br> K.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>Atmospheric escape is the loss of planetary atmospheric gases to outer space. A number of different mechanisms can be responsible for atmospheric escape; these processes can be divided into thermal escape, non-thermal (or suprathermal) escape, and impact erosion. The relative importance of each loss process depends on the planet's escape velocity, its atmosphere composition, and its distance from its star. Escape occurs when molecular kinetic energy overcomes gravitational energy; in other words, a molecule can escape when it is moving faster than the escape velocity of its planet. Categorizing the rate of atmospheric escape in exoplanets is necessary to determining whether an atmosphere persists, and so the exoplanet's habitability and likelihood of life.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Distribution function[edit]<br>For a system containing a large number of identical non-interacting, non-relativistic classical particles in thermodynamic equilibrium, the fraction of the particles within an infinitesimal element of the three-dimensional velocity space dv, centered on a velocity vector of magnitude v, is given by<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br> <br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br> <br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)~d^{3}v={\biggl [}{\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}\,\exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)~d^{3}v,}<br><br><br>where:<br>m is the particle mass;<br>k is the Boltzmann constant;<br>T is thermodynamic temperature;<br>f (v) is a probability distribution function, properly normalized so that <br><br><br><br>∫<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br><br><br>{\textstyle \int f(v)\,d^{3}v}<br><br> over all velocities is unity.<br>The speed probability density functions of the speeds of a few noble gases at a temperature of 298.15 K (25 °C). The y-axis is in s/m so that the area under any section of the curve (which represents the probability of the speed being in that range) is dimensionless.<br>One can write the element of velocity space as <br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br>=<br>d<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle d^{3}v=dv_{x}\,dv_{y}\,dv_{z}}<br><br>, for velocities in a standard Cartesian coordinate system, or as <br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br>=<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br>d<br>Ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle d^{3}v=v^{2}\,dv\,d\Omega }<br><br> in a standard spherical coordinate system, where <br><br><br><br>d<br>Ω<br>=<br>s<br>i<br>n<br>(<br>θ<br>)<br>d<br>ϕ<br>d<br>θ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle d\Omega =sin(\theta )d\phi d\theta }<br><br> is an element of solid angle and <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v^{2}=v_{x}^{2}+v_{y}^{2}+v_{z}^{2}}<br>The Maxwellian distribution function for particles moving in only one direction, if this direction is x, is<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>)<br> <br>d<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br> <br>d<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v_{x})~dv_{x}={\sqrt {\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}}\,\exp \left(-{\frac {mv_{x}^{2}}{2kT}}\right)~dv_{x},}<br><br><br>which can be obtained by integrating the three-dimensional form given above over vy and vz.<br>Recognizing the symmetry of <br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)}<br><br>, one can integrate over solid angle and write a probability distribution of speeds as the function<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>4<br>π<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)={\biggl [}{\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}\,4\pi v^{2}\exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right).}<br>This probability density function gives the probability, per unit speed, of finding the particle with a speed near v. This equation is simply the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution (given in the infobox) with distribution parameter <br><br><br><br>a<br>=<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>/<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\textstyle a={\sqrt {kT/m}}\,.}<br><br> <br>The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution is equivalent to the chi distribution with three degrees of freedom and scale parameter <br><br><br><br>a<br>=<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>/<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\textstyle a={\sqrt {kT/m}}\,.}<br>The simplest ordinary differential equation satisfied by the distribution is:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>0<br>=<br>k<br>T<br>v<br><br>f<br>′<br><br>(<br>v<br>)<br>+<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br>(<br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br>2<br>k<br>T<br>)<br>,<br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>1<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>;<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}&0=kTvf'(v)+f(v)(mv^{2}-2kT),\\[4pt]&f(1)={\sqrt {\frac {2}{\pi }}}\,{\biggl [}{\frac {m}{kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {m}{2kT}}\right);\end{aligned}}}<br>or in unitless presentation:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>0<br>=<br><br>a<br><br>2<br><br><br>x<br><br>f<br>′<br><br>(<br>x<br>)<br>+<br><br>(<br><br><br>x<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br>2<br><br>a<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>f<br>(<br>x<br>)<br>,<br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>1<br>)<br>=<br><br><br>1<br><br>a<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br><br>a<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}&0=a^{2}xf'(x)+\left(x^{2}-2a^{2}\right)f(x),\\[4pt]&f(1)={\frac {1}{a^{3}}}{\sqrt {\frac {2}{\pi }}}\exp \left(-{\frac {1}{2a^{2}}}\right).\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>With the Darwin–Fowler method of mean values, the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution is obtained as an exact result.<br>Simulation of a 2D gas relaxing towards a Maxwell–Boltzmann speed distribution

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution7.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>In n-dimensional space[edit]<br>In n-dimensional space, Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution becomes:<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br> <br><br>d<br><br>n<br><br><br>v<br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>n<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>|<br><br>v<br><br><br>|<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br> <br><br>d<br><br>n<br><br><br>v<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)~d^{n}v={\biggl [}{\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {n}{2}}\,\exp \left(-{\frac {m|v|^{2}}{2kT}}\right)~d^{n}v}<br>Speed distribution becomes:<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br> <br>d<br>v<br>=<br><br>const.<br><br>×<br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>×<br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br> <br>d<br>v<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)~dv={\text{const.}}\times \exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)\times v^{n-1}~dv}<br>The following integral result is useful:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>a<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>a<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>−<br>x<br><br><br><br>x<br><br>a<br><br>/<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>x<br><br>1<br><br>/<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>a<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>−<br>x<br><br><br><br>x<br><br>a<br><br>/<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>x<br><br>−<br>1<br><br>/<br><br>2<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>d<br>x<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>a<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>a<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\int _{0}^{+\infty }v^{a}\exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)dv&=\left[{\frac {2kT}{m}}\right]^{\frac {a+1}{2}}\int _{0}^{+\infty }e^{-x}x^{a/2}\,dx^{1/2}\\[2pt]&=\left[{\frac {2kT}{m}}\right]^{\frac {a+1}{2}}\int _{0}^{+\infty }e^{-x}x^{a/2}{\frac {x^{-1/2}}{2}}\,dx\\[2pt]&=\left[{\frac {2kT}{m}}\right]^{\frac {a+1}{2}}{\frac {\Gamma \left({\frac {a+1}{2}}\right)}{2}}\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>Γ<br>(<br>z<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma (z)}<br><br> is the Gamma function. This result can be used to calculate the moments of speed distribution function:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br>v<br>⋅<br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>n<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>(<br><br><br>n<br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\langle v\rangle &={\frac {\displaystyle \int _{0}^{+\infty }v\cdot v^{n-1}\exp \left(-{\tfrac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)\,dv}{\displaystyle \int _{0}^{+\infty }v^{n-1}\exp \left(-{\tfrac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)\,dv}}\\[4pt]&={\sqrt {\frac {2kT}{m}}}\ {\frac {\Gamma \left({\frac {n+1}{2}}\right)}{\Gamma \left({\frac {n}{2}}\right)}}\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>which is the mean speed itself <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>a<br>v<br>g<br><br><br><br>=<br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br>=<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>n<br>+<br>1<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>(<br><br><br>n<br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\textstyle v_{\mathrm {avg} }=\langle v\rangle ={\sqrt {\frac {2kT}{m}}}\ {\frac {\Gamma \left({\frac {n+1}{2}}\right)}{\Gamma \left({\frac {n}{2}}\right)}}.}<br>⟨<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⟩<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⋅<br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br>(<br><br><br><br>n<br>+<br>2<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>Γ<br>(<br><br><br>n<br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>n<br>2<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>n<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\langle v^{2}\rangle &={\frac {\displaystyle \int _{0}^{+\infty }v^{2}\cdot v^{n-1}\exp \left(-{\tfrac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)\,dv}{\displaystyle \int _{0}^{+\infty }v^{n-1}\exp \left(-{\tfrac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)\,dv}}\\[2pt]&=\left[{\frac {2kT}{m}}\right]{\frac {\Gamma ({\frac {n+2}{2}})}{\Gamma ({\frac {n}{2}})}}\\[2pt]&=\left[{\frac {2kT}{m}}\right]{\frac {n}{2}}={\frac {nkT}{m}}\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>which gives root-mean-square speed  <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>⟨<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⟩<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>n<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\textstyle v_{\rm {rms}}={\sqrt {\langle v^{2}\rangle }}={\sqrt {\frac {nkT}{m}}}.}<br>The derivative of speed distribution function:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>const.<br><br>×<br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br>v<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>1<br><br><br>+<br>(<br>n<br>−<br>1<br>)<br><br>v<br><br>n<br>−<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {df(v)}{dv}}={\text{const.}}\times \exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right){\biggl [}-{\frac {mv}{kT}}v^{n-1}+(n-1)v^{n-2}{\biggr ]}=0}<br>This yields the most probable speed (mode) <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>(<br>n<br>−<br>1<br>)<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\textstyle v_{\rm {p}}={\sqrt {\frac {(n-1)kT}{m}}}.}

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Derivation and related distributions[edit]<br>Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics[edit]<br><br>Main articles: Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics § Derivations, and Boltzmann distribution<br>The original derivation in 1860 by James Clerk Maxwell was an argument based on molecular collisions of the Kinetic theory of gases as well as certain symmetries in the speed distribution function; Maxwell also gave an early argument that these molecular collisions entail a tendency towards equilibrium. After Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann in 1872 also derived the distribution on mechanical grounds and argued that gases should over time tend toward this distribution, due to collisions (see H-theorem). He later (1877) derived the distribution again under the framework of statistical thermodynamics. The derivations in this section are along the lines of Boltzmann's 1877 derivation, starting with result known as Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics (from statistical thermodynamics). Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics gives the average number of particles found in a given single-particle microstate. Under certain assumptions, the logarithm of the fraction of particles in a given microstate is linear in the ratio of the energy of that state to the temperature of the system: there are constants <br><br><br><br>k<br><br><br>{\displaystyle k}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br>C<br><br><br>{\displaystyle C}<br><br> such that, for all <br><br><br><br>i<br><br><br>{\displaystyle i}<br><br>,<br><br><br><br><br>−<br>log<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>N<br><br><br>)<br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br>k<br><br><br>⋅<br><br><br><br>E<br><br>i<br><br><br>T<br><br><br>+<br>C<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle -\log \left({\frac {N_{i}}{N}}\right)={\frac {1}{k}}\cdot {\frac {E_{i}}{T}}+C.}<br><br><br>The assumptions of this equation are that the particles do not interact, and that they are classical; this means that each particle's state can be considered independently from the other particles' states. Additionally, the particles are assumed to be in thermal equilibrium.<br>This relation can be written as an equation by introducing a normalizing factor:<br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>N<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>E<br><br>i<br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>∑<br><br>j<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>j<br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {N_{i}}{N}}={\frac {\exp \left(-{\frac {E_{i}}{kT}}\right)}{\displaystyle \sum _{j}\exp \left(-{\tfrac {E_{j}}{kT}}\right)}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(1)<br>where:<br>Ni is the expected number of particles in the single-particle microstate i,<br>N is the total number of particles in the system,<br>Ei  is the energy of microstate i,<br>the sum over index j takes into account all microstates,<br>T is the equilibrium temperature of the system,<br>k is the Boltzmann constant.<br>The denominator in Equation (1) is a normalizing factor so that the ratios <br><br><br><br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>:<br>N<br><br><br>{\displaystyle N_{i}:N}<br><br>  add up to unity — in other words it is a kind of partition function (for the single-particle system, not the usual partition function of the entire system).<br>Because velocity and speed are related to energy, Equation (1) can be used to derive relationships between temperature and the speeds of gas particles. All that is needed is to discover the density of microstates in energy, which is determined by dividing up momentum space into equal sized regions.<br>Distribution for the momentum vector[edit]<br>The potential energy is taken to be zero, so that all energy is in the form of kinetic energy.<br>The relationship between kinetic energy and momentum for massive non-relativistic particles is<br>E<br>=<br><br><br><br>p<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle E={\frac {p^{2}}{2m}}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(2)<br>where p is the square of the momentum vector p = [px, py, pz]. We may therefore rewrite Equation (1) as:<br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>N<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br>Z<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>i<br>,<br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>i<br>,<br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>i<br>,<br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {N_{i}}{N}}={\frac {1}{Z}}\exp \left(-{\frac {p_{i,x}^{2}+p_{i,y}^{2}+p_{i,z}^{2}}{2mkT}}\right)}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(3)<br>where:<br>Z is the partition function, corresponding to the denominator in Equation (1);<br>m is the molecular mass of the gas;<br>T is the thermodynamic temperature;<br>k is the Boltzmann constant.<br>This distribution of Ni : N is proportional to the probability density function fp for finding a molecule with these values of momentum components, so:<br>f<br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br>,<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>)<br>∝<br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {p} }(p_{x},p_{y},p_{z})\propto \exp \left(-{\frac {p_{x}^{2}+p_{y}^{2}+p_{z}^{2}}{2mkT}}\right)}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(4)<br>The normalizing constant  can be determined by recognizing that the probability of a molecule having some momentum must be 1.<br>Integrating the exponential in (4) over all px, py, and pz yields a factor of <br><br><br><br><br><br>∭<br><br>−<br>∞<br><br><br>+<br>∞<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>d<br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>π<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \iiint _{-\infty }^{+\infty }\exp \left(-{\frac {p_{x}^{2}+p_{y}^{2}+p_{z}^{2}}{2mkT}}\right)dp_{x}\,dp_{y}\,dp_{z}={\Bigl [}{\sqrt {\pi }}{\sqrt {2mkT}}{\Bigr ]}^{3}}<br>So that the normalized distribution function is:<br>f<br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br>,<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>)<br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br>π<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {p} }(p_{x},p_{y},p_{z})=\left[{\frac {1}{2\pi mkT}}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {p_{x}^{2}+p_{y}^{2}+p_{z}^{2}}{2mkT}}\right)}<br><br>   (6)<br>The distribution is seen to be the product of three independent normally distributed variables <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>x<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{x}}<br><br>, <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>y<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{y}}<br><br>, and <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{z}}<br><br>, with variance <br><br><br><br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle mkT}<br><br>. Additionally, it can be seen that the magnitude of momentum will be distributed as a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution, with <br><br><br><br>a<br>=<br><br><br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle a={\sqrt {mkT}}}<br><br>. The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution for the momentum (or equally for the velocities) can be obtained more fundamentally using the H-theorem at equilibrium within the Kinetic theory of gases framework.<br>Distribution for the energy[edit]<br>The energy distribution is found imposing<br>f<br><br>E<br><br><br>(<br>E<br>)<br><br>d<br>E<br>=<br><br>f<br><br>p<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>p<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{E}(E)\,dE=f_{p}({\textbf {p}})\,d^{3}{\textbf {p}},}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(7)<br>where <br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle d^{3}{\textbf {p}}}<br><br> is the infinitesimal phase-space volume of momenta corresponding to the energy interval dE.<br>Making use of the spherical symmetry of the energy-momentum dispersion relation <br><br><br><br>E<br>=<br><br><br><br><br><br>|<br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>|<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>m<br><br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle E={\tfrac {|{\textbf {p}}|^{2}}{2m}},}<br><br> this can be expressed in terms of dE as<br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br>4<br>π<br><br>|<br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>|<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>d<br><br>|<br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br>|<br><br>=<br>4<br>π<br>m<br><br><br>2<br>m<br>E<br><br><br> <br>d<br>E<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle d^{3}{\textbf {p}}=4\pi |{\textbf {p}}|^{2}d|{\textbf {p}}|=4\pi m{\sqrt {2mE}}\ dE.}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br> <br><br> <br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>(8)<br>Using then (8) in (7), and expressing everything in terms of the energy E, we get<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br><br>E<br><br><br>(<br>E<br>)<br>d<br>E<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br>π<br>m<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>E<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>4<br>π<br>m<br><br><br>2<br>m<br>E<br><br><br> <br>d<br>E<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br>2<br><br><br><br>E<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br>1<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>E<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>E<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}f_{E}(E)dE&=\left[{\frac {1}{2\pi mkT}}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {E}{kT}}\right)4\pi m{\sqrt {2mE}}\ dE\\[2pt]&=2{\sqrt {\frac {E}{\pi }}}\,\left[{\frac {1}{kT}}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {E}{kT}}\right)\,dE\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>and finally<br>f<br><br>E<br><br><br>(<br>E<br>)<br>=<br>2<br><br><br><br>E<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br>1<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>E<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{E}(E)=2{\sqrt {\frac {E}{\pi }}}\,\left[{\frac {1}{kT}}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {E}{kT}}\right)}<br><br>   (9)<br>Since the energy is proportional to the sum of the squares of the three normally distributed momentum components, this energy distribution can be written equivalently as a gamma distribution, using a shape parameter, <br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>shape<br><br><br>=<br>3<br><br>/<br><br>2<br><br><br>{\displaystyle k_{\text{shape}}=3/2}<br><br> and a scale parameter, <br><br><br><br><br>θ<br><br>scale<br><br><br>=<br>k<br>T<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta _{\text{scale}}=kT.}<br>Using the equipartition theorem, given that the energy is evenly distributed among all three degrees of freedom in equilibrium, we can also split <br><br><br><br><br>f<br><br>E<br><br><br>(<br>E<br>)<br>d<br>E<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{E}(E)dE}<br><br> into a set of chi-squared distributions, where the energy per degree of freedom, ε is distributed as a chi-squared distribution with one degree of freedom,<br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br><br>ε<br><br><br>(<br>ε<br>)<br><br>d<br>ε<br>=<br><br><br><br>1<br><br>π<br>ε<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br> <br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>ε<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br>ε<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\varepsilon }(\varepsilon )\,d\varepsilon ={\sqrt {\frac {1}{\pi \varepsilon kT}}}~\exp \left(-{\frac {\varepsilon }{kT}}\right)\,d\varepsilon }<br>At equilibrium, this distribution will hold true for any number of degrees of freedom. For example, if the particles are rigid mass dipoles of fixed dipole moment, they will have three translational degrees of freedom and two additional rotational degrees of freedom. The energy in each degree of freedom will be described according to the above chi-squared distribution with one degree of freedom, and the total energy will be distributed according to a chi-squared distribution with five degrees of freedom. This has implications in the theory of the specific heat of a gas.<br>Distribution for the velocity vector[edit]<br>Recognizing that the velocity probability density fv is proportional to the momentum probability density function by<br>f<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br>=<br><br>f<br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>d<br>p<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>3<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br>v<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {v} }d^{3}v=f_{\mathbf {p} }\left({\frac {dp}{dv}}\right)^{3}d^{3}v}<br>and using p = mv we get<br>f<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>)<br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br>(<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {v} }(v_{x},v_{y},v_{z})={\biggl [}{\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}\exp \left(-{\frac {m(v_{x}^{2}+v_{y}^{2}+v_{z}^{2})}{2kT}}\right)}<br>which is the Maxwell–Boltzmann velocity distribution. The probability of finding a particle with velocity in the infinitesimal element [dvx, dvy, dvz] about velocity v = [vx, vy, vz] is<br>f<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {v} }\left(v_{x},v_{y},v_{z}\right)\,dv_{x}\,dv_{y}\,dv_{z}.}<br>Like the momentum, this distribution is seen to be the product of three independent normally distributed variables <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{x}}<br><br>, <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{y}}<br><br>, and <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{z}}<br><br>, but with variance <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle {\frac {kT}{m}}}<br><br>.<br>It can also be seen that the Maxwell–Boltzmann velocity distribution for the vector velocity<br>[vx, vy, vz] is the product of the distributions for each of the three directions:<br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>,<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>=<br><br>f<br><br>v<br><br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>)<br><br>f<br><br>v<br><br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>)<br><br>f<br><br>v<br><br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{\mathbf {v} }\left(v_{x},v_{y},v_{z}\right)=f_{v}(v_{x})f_{v}(v_{y})f_{v}(v_{z})}<br><br><br>where the distribution for a single direction is<br><br><br><br><br><br>f<br><br>v<br><br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>i<br><br><br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>i<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f_{v}(v_{i})={\sqrt {\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}}\exp \left(-{\frac {mv_{i}^{2}}{2kT}}\right).}<br>Each component of the velocity vector has a normal distribution with mean <br><br><br><br><br>μ<br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>μ<br><br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>μ<br><br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mu _{v_{x}}=\mu _{v_{y}}=\mu _{v_{z}}=0}<br><br> and standard deviation <br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>σ<br><br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br>σ<br><br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle \sigma _{v_{x}}=\sigma _{v_{y}}=\sigma _{v_{z}}={\sqrt {\frac {kT}{m}}}}<br><br>, so the vector has a 3-dimensional normal distribution, a particular kind of multivariate normal distribution, with mean <br><br><br><br><br>μ<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>0<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mu _{\mathbf {v} }=\mathbf {0} }<br><br> and covariance <br><br><br><br><br>Σ<br><br><br>v<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>)<br><br>I<br><br><br>{\textstyle \Sigma _{\mathbf {v} }=\left({\frac {kT}{m}}\right)I}<br><br>, where <br><br><br><br>I<br><br><br>{\displaystyle I}<br><br> is the 3 × 3 identity matrix.<br>Distribution for the speed[edit]<br>The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution for the speed follows immediately from the distribution of the velocity vector, above.  Note that the speed is<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>=<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v={\sqrt {v_{x}^{2}+v_{y}^{2}+v_{z}^{2}}}}<br><br><br>and the volume element in spherical coordinates<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>y<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>z<br><br><br>=<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br>θ<br><br>d<br>v<br><br>d<br>θ<br><br>d<br>ϕ<br>=<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br>d<br>Ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle dv_{x}\,dv_{y}\,dv_{z}=v^{2}\sin \theta \,dv\,d\theta \,d\phi =v^{2}\,dv\,d\Omega }<br><br> <br>where <br><br><br><br>ϕ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \phi }<br><br> and <br><br><br><br>θ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \theta }<br><br> are the spherical coordinate angles of the velocity vector. Integration of the probability density function of the velocity over the solid angles <br><br><br><br>d<br>Ω<br><br><br>{\displaystyle d\Omega }<br><br> yields an additional factor of <br><br><br><br>4<br>π<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 4\pi }<br><br>.<br>The speed distribution with substitution of the speed for the sum of the squares of the vector components:<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f(v)={\sqrt {\frac {2}{\pi }}}\,{\biggl [}{\frac {m}{kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}v^{2}\exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right).}

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked 1, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Observations of exoplanet atmospheric escape[edit]<br>Studies of exoplanets have measured atmospheric escape as a means of determining atmospheric composition and habitability. The most common method is Lyman-alpha line absorption. Much as exoplanets are discovered using the dimming of a distant star's brightness (transit), looking specifically at wavelengths corresponding to hydrogen absorption describes the amount of hydrogen present in a sphere around the exoplanet. This method indicates that the hot Jupiters HD209458b and HD189733b and Hot Neptune GJ436b are experiencing significant atmospheric escape.<br>In 2018 it was discovered with the Hubble Space Telescope that atmospheric escape can also be measured with the 1083 nm Helium triplet. This wavelength is much more accessible from ground-based high-resolution spectrographs, when compared to the ultraviolet Lyman-alpha lines. The wavelength around the helium triplet has also the advantage that it is not severely affected by interstellar absorption, which is an issue for Lyman-alpha. Helium has on the other hand the disadvantage that it requires knowledge about the hydrogen-helium ratio to model the mass-loss of the atmosphere. Helium escape was measured around many giant exoplanets, including WASP-107b, WASP-69b and HD 189733b. It has also been detected around some mini-Neptunes, such as TOI-560 b and HD 63433 c.

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked 2, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Observations of exoplanet atmospheric escape[edit]<br>Studies of exoplanets have measured atmospheric escape as a means of determining atmospheric composition and habitability. The most common method is Lyman-alpha line absorption. Much as exoplanets are discovered using the dimming of a distant star's brightness (transit), looking specifically at wavelengths corresponding to hydrogen absorption describes the amount of hydrogen present in a sphere around the exoplanet. This method indicates that the hot Jupiters HD209458b and HD189733b and Hot Neptune GJ436b are experiencing significant atmospheric escape.<br>In 2018 it was discovered with the Hubble Space Telescope that atmospheric escape can also be measured with the 1083 nm Helium triplet. This wavelength is much more accessible from ground-based high-resolution spectrographs, when compared to the ultraviolet Lyman-alpha lines. The wavelength around the helium triplet has also the advantage that it is not severely affected by interstellar absorption, which is an issue for Lyman-alpha. Helium has on the other hand the disadvantage that it requires knowledge about the hydrogen-helium ratio to model the mass-loss of the atmosphere. Helium escape was measured around many giant exoplanets, including WASP-107b, WASP-69b and HD 189733b. It has also been detected around some mini-Neptunes, such as TOI-560 b and HD 63433 c.

### GROUND TRUTH 10, ranked 5, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Dominant atmospheric escape and loss processes in the Solar System[edit]<br>Earth[edit]<br>Atmospheric escape of hydrogen on Earth is due to charge exchange escape (~60–90%), Jeans escape (~10–40%), and polar wind escape (~10–15%), currently losing about 3 kg/s of hydrogen. The Earth additionally loses approximately 50 g/s of helium primarily through polar wind escape. Escape of other atmospheric constituents is much smaller. A Japanese research team in 2017 found evidence of a small number of oxygen ions on the moon that came from the Earth.<br>In 1 billion years, the Sun will be 10% brighter than it is now, making it hot enough for Earth to lose enough hydrogen to space to cause it to lose all of its water (See Future of Earth#Loss of oceans).<br>Venus[edit]<br>Recent models indicate that hydrogen escape on Venus is almost entirely due to suprathermal mechanisms, primarily photochemical reactions and charge exchange with the solar wind. Oxygen escape is dominated by charge exchange and sputtering escape. Venus Express measured the effect of coronal mass ejections on the rate of atmospheric escape of Venus, and researchers found a factor of 1.9 increase in escape rate during periods of increased coronal mass ejections compared with calmer space weather.<br>Mars[edit]<br>Primordial Mars also suffered from the cumulative effects of multiple small impact erosion events, and recent observations with MAVEN suggest that 66% of the Ar in the Martian atmosphere has been lost over the last 4 billion years due to suprathermal escape, and the amount of CO2 lost over the same time period is around 0.5 bar or more.<br>The MAVEN mission has also explored the current rate of atmospheric escape of Mars. Jeans escape plays an important role in the continued escape of hydrogen on Mars, contributing to a loss rate that varies between 160 - 1800 g/s. Jeans escape of hydrogen can be significantly modulated by lower atmospheric processes, such as gravity waves, convection, and dust storms. Oxygen loss is dominated by suprathermal methods:  photochemical (~1300 g/s), charge exchange (~130 g/s), and sputtering (~80 g/s) escape combine for a total loss rate of ~1500 g/s. Other heavy atoms, such as carbon and nitrogen, are primarily lost due to photochemical reactions and interactions with the solar wind.<br>Titan and Io[edit]<br>Saturn's moon Titan and Jupiter's moon Io have atmospheres and are subject to atmospheric loss processes. They have no magnetic fields of their own, but orbit planets with powerful magnetic fields, which protects a given moon from the solar wind when its orbit is within the bow shock. However Titan spends roughly half of its orbital period outside of the bow-shock, subjected to unimpeded solar winds. The kinetic energy gained from pick-up and sputtering associated with the solar winds increases thermal escape throughout the orbit of Titan, causing neutral hydrogen to escape. The escaped hydrogen maintains an orbit following in the wake of Titan, creating a neutral hydrogen torus around Saturn. Io, in its orbit around Jupiter, encounters a plasma cloud. Interaction with the plasma cloud induces sputtering, kicking off sodium particles. The interaction produces a stationary banana-shaped charged sodium cloud along a part of the orbit of Io.

### GROUND TRUTH 11, ranked 20, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Thermal escape mechanisms[edit]<br>Thermal escape occurs if the molecular velocity due to thermal energy is sufficiently high. Thermal escape happens at all scales, from the molecular level (Jeans escape) to bulk atmospheric outflow (hydrodynamic escape).<br>A visualization of Jeans escape. Temperature defines a range of molecular energy. Above the exobase, molecules with enough energy escape, while in the lower atmosphere, molecules are trapped by collisions with other molecules.<br>Jeans escape[edit]<br>One classical thermal escape mechanism is Jeans escape, named after British astronomer Sir James Jeans, who first described this process of atmospheric loss. In a quantity of gas, the average velocity of any one molecule is measured by the gas's temperature, but the velocities of individual molecules change as they collide with one another, gaining and losing kinetic energy. The variation in kinetic energy among the molecules is described by the Maxwell distribution. The kinetic energy (<br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>k<br>i<br>n<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle E_{kin}}<br><br>), mass (<br><br><br><br>m<br><br><br>{\displaystyle m}<br><br>), and velocity (<br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v}<br><br>) of a molecule are related by <br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br><br>k<br>i<br>n<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle E_{\mathit {kin}}={\frac {1}{2}}mv^{2}}<br><br>. Individual molecules in the high tail of the distribution (where a few particles have much higher speeds than the average) may reach escape velocity and leave the atmosphere, provided they can escape before undergoing another collision; this happens predominantly in the exosphere, where the mean free path is comparable in length to the pressure scale height. The number of particles able to escape depends on the molecular concentration at the exobase, which is limited by diffusion through the thermosphere.<br>Three factors strongly contribute to the relative importance of Jeans escape: mass of the molecule, escape velocity of the planet, and heating of the upper atmosphere by radiation from the parent star. Heavier molecules are less likely to escape because they move slower than lighter molecules at the same temperature. This is why hydrogen escapes from an atmosphere more easily than carbon dioxide. Second, a planet with a larger mass tends to have more gravity, so the escape velocity tends to be greater, and fewer particles will gain the energy required to escape. This is why the gas giant planets still retain significant amounts of hydrogen, which escape more readily from Earth's atmosphere. Finally, the distance a planet orbits from a star also plays a part; a close planet has a hotter atmosphere, with higher velocities and hence, a greater likelihood of escape. A distant body has a cooler atmosphere, with lower velocities, and less chance of escape.<br>A visualization of hydrodynamic escape. At some level in the atmosphere, the bulk gas will be heated and begin to expand. As the gas expands, it accelerates and escapes the atmosphere. In this process, lighter, faster molecules drag heavier, slower molecules out of the atmosphere.<br>Hydrodynamic escape[edit]<br>See also: hydrodynamic escape<br>An atmosphere with high pressure and temperature can also undergo hydrodynamic escape. In this case, a large amount of thermal energy,  usually through extreme ultraviolet radiation, is absorbed by the atmosphere. As molecules are heated, they expand upwards and are further accelerated until they reach escape velocity. In this process, lighter molecules can drag heavier molecules with them through collisions as a larger quantity of gas escapes. Hydrodynamic escape has been observed for exoplanets close to their host star, including the hot Jupiter HD 209458b.

### GROUND TRUTH 12, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Impact erosion[edit]<br>The impact of a large meteoroid can lead to the loss of atmosphere. If a collision is sufficiently energetic, it is possible for ejecta, including atmospheric molecules, to reach escape velocity.<br>In order to have a significant effect on atmospheric escape, the radius of the impacting body must be larger than the scale height. The projectile can impart momentum, and thereby facilitate escape of the atmosphere, in three main ways: (a) the meteoroid heats and accelerates the gas it encounters as it travels through the atmosphere, (b) solid ejecta from the impact crater heat atmospheric particles through drag as they are ejected, and (c) the impact creates vapor which expands away from the surface. In the first case, the heated gas can escape in a manner similar to hydrodynamic escape, albeit on a more localized scale. Most of the escape from impact erosion occurs due to the third case. The maximum atmosphere that can be ejected is above a plane tangent to the impact site.

### GROUND TRUTH 13, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape#Thermal_escape_mechanisms3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Non-thermal (suprathermal) escape[edit]<br>Escape can also occur due to non-thermal interactions. Most of these processes occur due to photochemistry or charged particle (ion) interactions.<br>Photochemical escape[edit]<br>In the upper atmosphere, high energy ultraviolet photons can react more readily with molecules. Photodissociation can break a molecule into smaller components and provide enough energy for those components to escape. Photoionization produces ions, which can get trapped in the planet's magnetosphere or undergo dissociative recombination. In the first case, these ions may undergo escape mechanisms described below. In the second case, the ion recombines with an electron, releases energy, and can escape.<br>Sputtering escape[edit]<br>Excess kinetic energy from the solar wind can impart sufficient energy to eject atmospheric particles, similar to sputtering from a solid surface. This type of interaction is more pronounced in the absence of a planetary magnetosphere, as the electrically charged solar wind is deflected by magnetic fields, which mitigates the loss of atmosphere.<br>The fast ion captures an electron from a slow neutral in a charge exchange collision. The new, fast neutral can escape the atmosphere, and the new, slow ion is trapped on magnetic field lines.<br>Charge exchange escape[edit]<br>Ions in the solar wind or magnetosphere can charge exchange with molecules in the upper atmosphere. A fast-moving ion can capture the electron from a slow atmospheric neutral, creating a fast neutral and a slow ion. The slow ion is trapped on the magnetic field lines, but the fast neutral can escape.<br>Polar wind escape[edit]<br><br>See also: Polar wind<br>Atmospheric molecules can also escape from the polar regions on a planet with a magnetosphere, due to the polar wind. Near the poles of a magnetosphere, the magnetic field lines are open, allowing a pathway for ions in the atmosphere to exhaust into space.<br>Atmospheric escape from impact erosion is concentrated in a cone (red dash-dotted line) centered at the impact site. The angle of this cone increases with impact energy to eject a maximum of all the atmosphere above a tangent plane (orange dotted line).

### GROUND TRUTH 14, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Maxwell_E2_80_93Boltzmann_distribution4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Typical speeds[edit]<br>The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution corresponding to the solar atmosphere. Particle masses are one proton mass, mp = 1.67×10 kg ≈ 1 Da, and the temperature is the effective temperature of the Sun's photosphere, T = 5800 K. <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br>~<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\tilde {V}}}<br><br>, <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br>¯<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\bar {V}}}<br><br>, and Vrms mark the most probable, mean, and root mean square velocities, respectively. Their values are <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br>~<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\tilde {V}}}<br><br> ≈ 9.79 km/s, <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>V<br>¯<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\bar {V}}}<br><br> ≈ 11.05 km/s, and Vrms ≈ 12.00 km/s.<br>The mean speed <br><br><br><br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \langle v\rangle }<br><br>, most probable speed (mode) vp, and root-mean-square speed <br><br><br><br><br><br>⟨<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⟩<br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle {\sqrt {\langle v^{2}\rangle }}}<br><br> can be obtained from properties of the Maxwell distribution.<br>This works well for nearly ideal, monatomic gases like helium, but also for molecular gases like diatomic oxygen. This is because despite the larger heat capacity (larger internal energy at the same temperature) due to their larger number of degrees of freedom, their translational kinetic energy (and thus their speed) is unchanged.<br>The most probable speed, vp, is the speed most likely to be possessed by any molecule (of the same mass m) in the system and corresponds to the maximum value or the mode of f(v). To find it, we calculate the derivative <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br>f<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\tfrac {df}{dv}},}<br><br> set it to zero and solve for v: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br>=<br>−<br>8<br>π<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br>]<br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {df(v)}{dv}}=-8\pi {\biggl [}{\frac {m}{2\pi kT}}{\biggr ]}^{\frac {3}{2}}\,v\,\left[{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}-1\right]\exp \left(-{\frac {mv^{2}}{2kT}}\right)=0}<br><br> with the solution: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>=<br>1<br>;<br><br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>R<br>T<br><br>M<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {mv_{\text{p}}^{2}}{2kT}}=1;\quad v_{\text{p}}={\sqrt {\frac {2kT}{m}}}={\sqrt {\frac {2RT}{M}}}}<br><br>where:<br>R is the gas constant;<br>M is molar mass of the substance, and thus may be calculated as a product of particle mass, m, and Avogadro constant, NA: <br><br><br><br>M<br>=<br>m<br><br>N<br><br><br>A<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle M=mN_{\mathrm {A} }.}<br>For diatomic nitrogen (N2, the primary component of air) at room temperature (300 K), this gives<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>≈<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>⋅<br>8.31<br> <br><br>J<br><br>⋅<br><br><br>mol<br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br><br><br>K<br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br> <br>300<br> <br><br>K<br><br><br><br>0.028<br> <br><br>kg<br><br>⋅<br><br><br>mol<br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>≈<br>422<br> <br><br>m/s<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{\text{p}}\approx {\sqrt {\frac {2\cdot 8.31\ {\text{J}}\cdot {\text{mol}}^{-1}{\text{K}}^{-1}\ 300\ {\text{K}}}{0.028\ {\text{kg}}\cdot {\text{mol}}^{-1}}}}\approx 422\ {\text{m/s}}.}<br>The mean speed is the expected value of the speed distribution, setting <br><br><br><br>b<br>=<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br><br>a<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle b={\frac {1}{2a^{2}}}={\frac {m}{2kT}}}<br><br>: <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>∞<br><br><br>v<br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br>4<br>π<br><br><br>[<br><br><br>b<br>π<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>−<br>b<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br>4<br>π<br><br><br>[<br><br><br>b<br>π<br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br><br>b<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>4<br><br>π<br>b<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>8<br>k<br>T<br><br><br>π<br>m<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>8<br>R<br>T<br><br><br>π<br>M<br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>2<br><br>π<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\langle v\rangle &=\int _{0}^{\infty }v\,f(v)\,dv\\[2pt]&=4\pi \left[{\frac {b}{\pi }}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}\int _{0}^{\infty }v^{3}e^{-bv^{2}}dv\\[2pt]&=4\pi \left[{\frac {b}{\pi }}\right]^{\frac {3}{2}}{\frac {1}{2b^{2}}}={\sqrt {\frac {4}{\pi b}}}\\[2pt]&={\sqrt {\frac {8kT}{\pi m}}}={\sqrt {\frac {8RT}{\pi M}}}={\frac {2}{\sqrt {\pi }}}v_{\text{p}}\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>The mean square speed <br><br><br><br>⟨<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⟩<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \langle v^{2}\rangle }<br><br> is the second-order raw moment of the speed distribution. The "root mean square speed" <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{\mathrm {rms} }}<br><br> is the square root of the mean square speed, corresponding to the speed of a particle with average kinetic energy, setting <br><br><br><br>b<br>=<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br><br>a<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>m<br><br>2<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle b={\frac {1}{2a^{2}}}={\frac {m}{2kT}}}<br><br>:<br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>⟨<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>⟩<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br>v<br>)<br><br>d<br>v<br><br>]<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br>4<br>π<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>b<br>π<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>∞<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>−<br>b<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>d<br>v<br><br>]<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>[<br><br>4<br>π<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>b<br>π<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>3<br>8<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br>π<br><br>b<br><br>5<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>3<br><br>2<br>b<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>3<br>R<br>T<br><br>M<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}v_{\mathrm {rms} }&={\sqrt {\langle v^{2}\rangle }}=\left[\int _{0}^{\infty }v^{2}\,f(v)\,dv\right]^{\frac {1}{2}}\\[2pt]&=\left[4\pi \left({\frac {b}{\pi }}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}\int _{0}^{\infty }v^{4}e^{-bv^{2}}dv\right]^{\frac {1}{2}}\\[2pt]&=\left[4\pi \left({\frac {b}{\pi }}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}{\frac {3}{8}}\left({\frac {\pi }{b^{5}}}\right)^{\frac {1}{2}}\right]^{\frac {1}{2}}={\sqrt {\frac {3}{2b}}}\\[2pt]&={\sqrt {\frac {3kT}{m}}}={\sqrt {\frac {3RT}{M}}}={\sqrt {\frac {3}{2}}}v_{\text{p}}\end{aligned}}}<br>In summary, the typical speeds are related as follows:<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>≈<br>88.6<br>%<br> <br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><<br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><<br>108.5<br>%<br> <br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br>≈<br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{\text{p}}\approx 88.6\%\ \langle v\rangle <\langle v\rangle <108.5\%\ \langle v\rangle \approx v_{\mathrm {rms} }.}<br>The root mean square speed is directly related to the speed of sound c in the gas, by<br><br><br><br><br>c<br>=<br><br><br><br>γ<br>3<br><br><br><br> <br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>+<br>2<br><br><br>3<br>f<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>+<br>2<br><br><br>2<br>f<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c={\sqrt {\frac {\gamma }{3}}}\ v_{\mathrm {rms} }={\sqrt {\frac {f+2}{3f}}}\ v_{\mathrm {rms} }={\sqrt {\frac {f+2}{2f}}}\ v_{\text{p}},}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>γ<br>=<br>1<br>+<br><br><br>2<br>f<br><br><br><br><br>{\textstyle \gamma =1+{\frac {2}{f}}}<br><br> is the adiabatic index, f is the number of degrees of freedom of the individual gas molecule. For the example above, diatomic nitrogen (approximating air) at 300 K, <br><br><br><br>f<br>=<br>5<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f=5}<br><br> and<br><br><br><br><br>c<br>=<br><br><br><br>7<br>15<br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>≈<br>68<br>%<br> <br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>m<br>s<br><br><br><br>≈<br>84<br>%<br> <br><br>v<br><br>p<br><br><br>≈<br>353<br> <br><br>m<br><br>/<br><br>s<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c={\sqrt {\frac {7}{15}}}v_{\mathrm {rms} }\approx 68\%\ v_{\mathrm {rms} }\approx 84\%\ v_{\text{p}}\approx 353\ \mathrm {m/s} ,}<br><br><br>the true value for air can be approximated by using the average molar weight of air (29 g/mol), yielding 347 m/s at 300 K (corrections for variable humidity are of the order of 0.1% to 0.6%).<br>The average relative velocity<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>r<br>e<br>l<br><br><br><br>≡<br>⟨<br><br>|<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>|<br><br>⟩<br><br><br><br>=<br>∫<br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>|<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>|<br><br>f<br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br>)<br>f<br>(<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>4<br><br>π<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>⟨<br>v<br>⟩<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}v_{\rm {rel}}\equiv \langle |{\vec {v}}_{1}-{\vec {v}}_{2}|\rangle &=\int \!d^{3}v_{1}\,d^{3}v_{2}\left|{\vec {v}}_{1}-{\vec {v}}_{2}\right|f({\vec {v}}_{1})f({\vec {v}}_{2})\\[2pt]&={\frac {4}{\sqrt {\pi }}}{\sqrt {\frac {kT}{m}}}={\sqrt {2}}\langle v\rangle \end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>where the three-dimensional velocity distribution is<br><br><br><br><br>f<br>(<br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br>)<br>≡<br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br>k<br>T<br><br>m<br><br><br>]<br><br><br>−<br><br><br>3<br>2<br><br><br><br><br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>−<br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle f({\vec {v}})\equiv \left[{\frac {2\pi kT}{m}}\right]^{-{\frac {3}{2}}}\exp \left(-{\frac {1}{2}}{\frac {m{\vec {v}}^{2}}{kT}}\right).}<br>The integral can easily be done by changing to coordinates <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>u<br>→<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\vec {u}}={\vec {v}}_{1}-{\vec {v}}_{2}}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>U<br>→<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br>+<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br>→<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\vec {U}}={\tfrac {{\vec {v}}_{1}\,+\,{\vec {v}}_{2}}{2}}.}

### GROUND TRUTH 15, ranked 4, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Dominant atmospheric escape and loss processes in the Solar System[edit]<br>Earth[edit]<br>Atmospheric escape of hydrogen on Earth is due to charge exchange escape (~60–90%), Jeans escape (~10–40%), and polar wind escape (~10–15%), currently losing about 3 kg/s of hydrogen. The Earth additionally loses approximately 50 g/s of helium primarily through polar wind escape. Escape of other atmospheric constituents is much smaller. A Japanese research team in 2017 found evidence of a small number of oxygen ions on the moon that came from the Earth.<br>In 1 billion years, the Sun will be 10% brighter than it is now, making it hot enough for Earth to lose enough hydrogen to space to cause it to lose all of its water (See Future of Earth#Loss of oceans).<br>Venus[edit]<br>Recent models indicate that hydrogen escape on Venus is almost entirely due to suprathermal mechanisms, primarily photochemical reactions and charge exchange with the solar wind. Oxygen escape is dominated by charge exchange and sputtering escape. Venus Express measured the effect of coronal mass ejections on the rate of atmospheric escape of Venus, and researchers found a factor of 1.9 increase in escape rate during periods of increased coronal mass ejections compared with calmer space weather.<br>Mars[edit]<br>Primordial Mars also suffered from the cumulative effects of multiple small impact erosion events, and recent observations with MAVEN suggest that 66% of the Ar in the Martian atmosphere has been lost over the last 4 billion years due to suprathermal escape, and the amount of CO2 lost over the same time period is around 0.5 bar or more.<br>The MAVEN mission has also explored the current rate of atmospheric escape of Mars. Jeans escape plays an important role in the continued escape of hydrogen on Mars, contributing to a loss rate that varies between 160 - 1800 g/s. Jeans escape of hydrogen can be significantly modulated by lower atmospheric processes, such as gravity waves, convection, and dust storms. Oxygen loss is dominated by suprathermal methods:  photochemical (~1300 g/s), charge exchange (~130 g/s), and sputtering (~80 g/s) escape combine for a total loss rate of ~1500 g/s. Other heavy atoms, such as carbon and nitrogen, are primarily lost due to photochemical reactions and interactions with the solar wind.<br>Titan and Io[edit]<br>Saturn's moon Titan and Jupiter's moon Io have atmospheres and are subject to atmospheric loss processes. They have no magnetic fields of their own, but orbit planets with powerful magnetic fields, which protects a given moon from the solar wind when its orbit is within the bow shock. However Titan spends roughly half of its orbital period outside of the bow-shock, subjected to unimpeded solar winds. The kinetic energy gained from pick-up and sputtering associated with the solar winds increases thermal escape throughout the orbit of Titan, causing neutral hydrogen to escape. The escaped hydrogen maintains an orbit following in the wake of Titan, creating a neutral hydrogen torus around Saturn. Io, in its orbit around Jupiter, encounters a plasma cloud. Interaction with the plasma cloud induces sputtering, kicking off sodium particles. The interaction produces a stationary banana-shaped charged sodium cloud along a part of the orbit of Io.

### GROUND TRUTH 16, ranked 21, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Thermal escape mechanisms[edit]<br>Thermal escape occurs if the molecular velocity due to thermal energy is sufficiently high. Thermal escape happens at all scales, from the molecular level (Jeans escape) to bulk atmospheric outflow (hydrodynamic escape).<br>A visualization of Jeans escape. Temperature defines a range of molecular energy. Above the exobase, molecules with enough energy escape, while in the lower atmosphere, molecules are trapped by collisions with other molecules.<br>Jeans escape[edit]<br>One classical thermal escape mechanism is Jeans escape, named after British astronomer Sir James Jeans, who first described this process of atmospheric loss. In a quantity of gas, the average velocity of any one molecule is measured by the gas's temperature, but the velocities of individual molecules change as they collide with one another, gaining and losing kinetic energy. The variation in kinetic energy among the molecules is described by the Maxwell distribution. The kinetic energy (<br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>k<br>i<br>n<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle E_{kin}}<br><br>), mass (<br><br><br><br>m<br><br><br>{\displaystyle m}<br><br>), and velocity (<br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v}<br><br>) of a molecule are related by <br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br><br>k<br>i<br>n<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br>2<br><br><br>m<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle E_{\mathit {kin}}={\frac {1}{2}}mv^{2}}<br><br>. Individual molecules in the high tail of the distribution (where a few particles have much higher speeds than the average) may reach escape velocity and leave the atmosphere, provided they can escape before undergoing another collision; this happens predominantly in the exosphere, where the mean free path is comparable in length to the pressure scale height. The number of particles able to escape depends on the molecular concentration at the exobase, which is limited by diffusion through the thermosphere.<br>Three factors strongly contribute to the relative importance of Jeans escape: mass of the molecule, escape velocity of the planet, and heating of the upper atmosphere by radiation from the parent star. Heavier molecules are less likely to escape because they move slower than lighter molecules at the same temperature. This is why hydrogen escapes from an atmosphere more easily than carbon dioxide. Second, a planet with a larger mass tends to have more gravity, so the escape velocity tends to be greater, and fewer particles will gain the energy required to escape. This is why the gas giant planets still retain significant amounts of hydrogen, which escape more readily from Earth's atmosphere. Finally, the distance a planet orbits from a star also plays a part; a close planet has a hotter atmosphere, with higher velocities and hence, a greater likelihood of escape. A distant body has a cooler atmosphere, with lower velocities, and less chance of escape.<br>A visualization of hydrodynamic escape. At some level in the atmosphere, the bulk gas will be heated and begin to expand. As the gas expands, it accelerates and escapes the atmosphere. In this process, lighter, faster molecules drag heavier, slower molecules out of the atmosphere.<br>Hydrodynamic escape[edit]<br>See also: hydrodynamic escape<br>An atmosphere with high pressure and temperature can also undergo hydrodynamic escape. In this case, a large amount of thermal energy,  usually through extreme ultraviolet radiation, is absorbed by the atmosphere. As molecules are heated, they expand upwards and are further accelerated until they reach escape velocity. In this process, lighter molecules can drag heavier molecules with them through collisions as a larger quantity of gas escapes. Hydrodynamic escape has been observed for exoplanets close to their host star, including the hot Jupiter HD 209458b.

### GROUND TRUTH 17, ranked not in top 100, g_needed/Atmospheric_escape3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Non-thermal (suprathermal) escape[edit]<br>Escape can also occur due to non-thermal interactions. Most of these processes occur due to photochemistry or charged particle (ion) interactions.<br>Photochemical escape[edit]<br>In the upper atmosphere, high energy ultraviolet photons can react more readily with molecules. Photodissociation can break a molecule into smaller components and provide enough energy for those components to escape. Photoionization produces ions, which can get trapped in the planet's magnetosphere or undergo dissociative recombination. In the first case, these ions may undergo escape mechanisms described below. In the second case, the ion recombines with an electron, releases energy, and can escape.<br>Sputtering escape[edit]<br>Excess kinetic energy from the solar wind can impart sufficient energy to eject atmospheric particles, similar to sputtering from a solid surface. This type of interaction is more pronounced in the absence of a planetary magnetosphere, as the electrically charged solar wind is deflected by magnetic fields, which mitigates the loss of atmosphere.<br>The fast ion captures an electron from a slow neutral in a charge exchange collision. The new, fast neutral can escape the atmosphere, and the new, slow ion is trapped on magnetic field lines.<br>Charge exchange escape[edit]<br>Ions in the solar wind or magnetosphere can charge exchange with molecules in the upper atmosphere. A fast-moving ion can capture the electron from a slow atmospheric neutral, creating a fast neutral and a slow ion. The slow ion is trapped on the magnetic field lines, but the fast neutral can escape.<br>Polar wind escape[edit]<br><br>See also: Polar wind<br>Atmospheric molecules can also escape from the polar regions on a planet with a magnetosphere, due to the polar wind. Near the poles of a magnetosphere, the magnetic field lines are open, allowing a pathway for ions in the atmosphere to exhaust into space.<br>Atmospheric escape from impact erosion is concentrated in a cone (red dash-dotted line) centered at the impact site. The angle of this cone increases with impact energy to eject a maximum of all the atmosphere above a tangent plane (orange dotted line).
