# Query `36`

## Original Question

*What is the scientific reason for the majestic sights of the northern and southern lights, otherwise known as Auroras near the magnetic poles, and why do the northern lights differ from the southern lights?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0714
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1569
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1569
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1569
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0357
map_cut_50: 0.0357
map_cut_100: 0.0357
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) predicting_aurora/northern_lights4_0.txt
> However, aurora activity is not consistent and the auroral oval – the appearance of light as a ring around the poles – constantly shifts. Therefore strong aurora in Sweden do not necessarily mean strong aurora in Canada and vice versa. The oval is tracked by space weather stations and is shown in forecast modules (see the ovation map below).<br>Northern Scandinavia and Iceland offer the most accessible destinations from the UK for viewing the northern lights, but there are recognised locations throughout the zone that offer optimum conditions for sightings. It is important to be away from any sources of artificial light, such as street

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) predicting_aurora/northern_lights3_3.txt
> The Northern Lights<br>          <br>The northern lights are also known as the aurora borealis, meaning light of dawn. It’s said the term was first coined by Galileo in 1623 and is derived from ‘Aurora’, the goddess of the dawn and ‘Boreas’, the northern wind personified.<br><br><br><br><br>Personalised adventures. Trusted expertise.<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>What are the Northern Lights?<br>The northern lights and their counterpart in the southern hemisphere appear when

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) aurora/forcast4_7.txt
> ckeditor-accordion-toggler" href="#Whatistheaurora" id="Whatistheaurora" onclick="return false;"<span class="ckeditor-accordion-toggle"</spanWhat is the aurora?</a</dt<br>	<dd<br>	<pThe aurora is a luminous glow seen around the magnetic poles of the northern and southern hemispheres. The light is caused by collisions between electrically charged particles streaming out from the sun in the solar wind that enter Earth’s atmosphere and collide

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) predicting_aurora/northern_lights4_5.txt
> down the magnetic lines towards the poles. Most are diverted and disappear into space, but the fast ones enter the earth’s upper atmosphere, where the magnetic fields converge. This is where the reaction of the particles and gases happen – atoms and molecules of oxygen and nitrogen get excited and release the light we know as the northern lights. Indeed, the event occurs simultaneously in the southern hemisphere causing the southern lights (aurora australis) to appear with one mirroring the other.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>The Solar Cycle & Solar Maximum<br>Approximately every 11 years or so

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) aurora/Aurora3_2.txt
> ) and Sophus Tromholt (1881) in more detail, established that the aurora appeared mainly in the auroral zone.<br>In northern latitudes, the effect is known as the aurora borealis or the northern lights. The southern counterpart, the aurora australis or the southern lights, has features almost identical to the aurora borealis and changes simultaneously with changes in the northern auroral zone. The aurora australis is visible from high southern latitudes in Antarctica, Chile, Argentina, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. The aurora borealis


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 13, aurora/Aurora1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>An aurora (pl. aurorae or auroras),<br>also commonly known as the northern lights (aurora borealis) or southern lights (aurora australis), is a natural light display in Earth's sky, predominantly seen in high-latitude regions (around the Arctic and Antarctic). Auroras display dynamic patterns of brilliant lights that appear as curtains, rays, spirals, or dynamic flickers covering the entire sky.<br>Auroras are the result of disturbances in the magnetosphere caused by the solar wind. Major disturbances result from enhancements in the speed of the solar wind from coronal holes and coronal mass ejections. These disturbances alter the trajectories of charged particles in the magnetospheric plasma. These particles, mainly electrons and protons, precipitate into the upper atmosphere (thermosphere/exosphere). The resulting ionization and excitation of atmospheric constituents emit light of varying colour and complexity. The form of the aurora, occurring within bands around both polar regions, is also dependent on the amount of acceleration imparted to the precipitating particles.<br>Most of the planets in the Solar System, some natural satellites, brown dwarfs, and even comets also host auroras.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, aurora/Aurora2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Etymology[edit]<br>The term aurora borealis was coined by Galileo in 1619, from the Roman Aurora, goddess of the dawn and the Greek name for the north wind (Boreas).<br>The word aurora is derived from the name of the Roman goddess of the dawn, Aurora, who travelled from east to west announcing the coming of the sun. Ancient Greek poets used the corresponding name Eos metaphorically to refer to dawn, often mentioning its play of colors across the otherwise dark sky (e.g., "rosy-fingered dawn").<br>The words borealis and australis are derived from the names of the ancient gods of the north wind (Boreas) and the south wind (Auster) in Greek mythology.
