# Query `37`

## Original Question

*When thinking about the formation of the current continents from a super-continent, it's clear that this is a gradual process, but there must be certain areas on earth which were once joined and were the "last" to break apart from Pangea.

Do we know when and where these rifting / break-up events took place?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.3000
P_25: 0.2000
P_50: 0.1200
P_100: 0.0700
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0526
recall_10: 0.1579
recall_25: 0.2632
recall_50: 0.3158
recall_100: 0.3684
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1461
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2278
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2220
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2522
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2777
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0132
map_cut_10: 0.0421
map_cut_25: 0.0691
map_cut_50: 0.0804
map_cut_100: 0.0873
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) not_icy_desert/permian_php3.txt
> The global geography of the Permian included massive areas of land and water. By the beginning of the Permian, the motion of the Earth's crustal plates had brought much of the total land together, fused in a supercontinent known as Pangea.  Many of the continents of today in somewhat intact form met in Pangea (only Asia was broken up at the time), which stretched from the northern to the southern pole.  Most of the rest of the surface area of the Earth was occupied by a corresponding single ocean, known as Panthalassa, with a smaller sea to the east of Pangea known as Tethys. <br>Models indicate that the interior regions of this vast continent were probably dry, with great seasonal fluctuations due to the lack of a moderating effect provided by nearby bodies of water. Only portions of this interior region received rainfall throughout the year.  There is little known about the Panthalassic Ocean itself. There are indications that the climate of the Earth shifted during the Permian, with decreasing glaciation as the interiors of continents became drier. Stratigraphy Until the later 1990s, there was little consensus on the order of strata in the late Permian.  Since the upper strata of various Permian locations tend to be relatively fossil deficient, correlation using index fossils has been difficult. Correlation was attempted using fossils that were in some cases native only to the local regions where they were found and older work was based on assumptions that have changed in more recent years.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) not_icy_desert/permian_php2.txt
> The Permian Period    Online exhibits : Geologic time scale : Paleozoic Era The Permian Period The Permian period lasted from 299 to 251 million years ago and was the last period of the Paleozoic Era. The distinction between the Paleozoic and the Mesozoic is made at the end of the Permian in recognition of the largest mass extinction recorded in the history of life on Earth.  It affected many groups of organisms in many different environments, but it affected marine communities the most by far, causing the extinction of most of the marine invertebrates of the time. Some groups survived the Permian mass extinction in greatly diminished numbers, but they never again reached the ecological dominance they once had, clearing the way for another group of sea life.  On land, a relatively smaller extinction of diapsids and synapsids cleared the way for other forms to dominate, and led to what has been called the "Age of Dinosaurs." Also, the great forests of fern-like plants shifted to gymnosperms, plants with their offspring enclosed within seeds.  Modern conifers, the most familiar gymnosperms of today, first appear in the fossil record of the Permian. The Permian was a time of great changes and life on Earth was never the same again. <br>The global geography of the Permian included massive areas of land and water. By the beginning of the Permian, the motion of the Earth's crustal plates had brought much of the total land together, fused in a supercontinent known as Pangea.  Many of the continents of today in somewhat intact form met in Pangea (only Asia was broken up at the time), which stretched from the northern to the southern pole.  Most of the rest of the surface area of the Earth was occupied by a corresponding single ocean, known as Panthalassa, with a smaller sea to the east of Pangea known as Tethys.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) rifting/7c3_3.txt
> constant movement is known as plate tectonics — and this is what led to the movement of land and the formation of the continents.</p<br><pThere are <strong seven continents </strong that make up Earth's land surface area. The next question asked is how do we determine which countries make up which continent?</p<br><pWhen looking at placing countries within a particular continent, there are two points to consider. These two points are the proximity to the region and <strongtectonic plates</strong.</p<br><pGe

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) rifting/Rift1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In geology, a rift is a linear zone where the lithosphere is being pulled apart and is an example of extensional tectonics. Typical rift features are a central linear downfaulted depression, called a graben, or more commonly a half-graben with normal faulting and rift-flank uplifts mainly on one side. Where rifts remain above sea level they form a rift valley, which may be filled by water forming a rift lake. The axis of the rift area may contain volcanic rocks, and active volcanism is a part of many, but not all, active rift systems.<br>Major rifts occur along the central axis of most mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust and lithosphere is created along a divergent boundary between two tectonic plates.<br>Failed rifts are the result of continental rifting that failed to continue to the point of break-up.  Typically the transition from rifting to spreading develops at a triple junction where three converging rifts meet over a hotspot.  Two of these evolve to the point of seafloor spreading, while the third ultimately fails, becoming an aulacogen.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) ocean_continent_divergent_boundary/diver_bound3_43.txt
> is weakening and stretching apart. It is an observable divergent boundary and a sign that a continent is breaking apart. Given enough time, the rifting will continue to a point in which the continental lithosphere will become so thin, it will become predominantly enriched in the mantle plume materials. At that point, the rift will have created brand new <a class="glossary-term" aria-haspopup="dialog" aria-describedby="definition" href="#term_437_1307"oceanic crust</a, and a newborn ocean basin will


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 3, rifting/Rift1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In geology, a rift is a linear zone where the lithosphere is being pulled apart and is an example of extensional tectonics. Typical rift features are a central linear downfaulted depression, called a graben, or more commonly a half-graben with normal faulting and rift-flank uplifts mainly on one side. Where rifts remain above sea level they form a rift valley, which may be filled by water forming a rift lake. The axis of the rift area may contain volcanic rocks, and active volcanism is a part of many, but not all, active rift systems.<br>Major rifts occur along the central axis of most mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust and lithosphere is created along a divergent boundary between two tectonic plates.<br>Failed rifts are the result of continental rifting that failed to continue to the point of break-up.  Typically the transition from rifting to spreading develops at a triple junction where three converging rifts meet over a hotspot.  Two of these evolve to the point of seafloor spreading, while the third ultimately fails, becoming an aulacogen.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 7, rifting/Madagascar_Plate1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>The Madagascar Plate or Madagascar block is a tectonic plate holding the island of Madagascar. It was once attached to the Gondwana supercontinent and later the Indo-Australian Plate.<br>Rifting in the Somali Basin began at the end of the Carboniferous 300 million years ago, as a part of the Karoo rift system. The initiation of Gondwana breakup, and transform faulting along the Davie Fracture Zone, occurred in the Toarcian (about 182 million years ago) following the eruption of the Bouvet (Karoo) mantle plume. At this time East Gondwana, comprising the Antarctic, Madagascar, Indian, and Australian plates, began to separate from the African Plate. East Gondwana then began to break apart about 115–120 million years ago when India began to move northward. Between 84–95 million years ago rifting separated Seychelles and India from Madagascar.<br>Since its formation the Madagascar block has moved roughly in conjunction with Africa, and thus there are questions as to whether the Madagascar Plate should be still considered a separate plate.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Extent[edit]<br>A series of distinct rift basins, the East African Rift System extends over thousands of kilometers. North of the Afar Triple Junction, the rift follows two paths: west to the Red Sea Rift and east to the Aden Ridge in the Gulf of Aden.<br>Southward from the Afar Triple Junction, the EAR consists of two main branches. The Eastern Rift Valley (also known as Gregory Rift) includes the Main Ethiopian Rift, runs southward from the Afar Triple Junction, and continues south as the Kenyan Rift Valley, then transects Congo DR, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, Tanzania, Malawi and Mozambique. The Western Rift Valley includes the Albertine Rift, and farther south, the valley of Lake Malawi.<br>The rift also continues offshore from the coast of Mozambique along the Kerimba and Lacerda grabens, which are joined by the Davie Ridge, a 2,200 km-long (1,400 mi) relic fracture zone that cuts across the West Somali basin, straddling the boundary between Tanzania and Mozambique. The Davie Ridge ranges between 30–120 km (19–75 mi) wide, with a west-facing scarp (east-plunging arch) along the southern half of its length that rises to 2,300 m (7,500 ft) above the sea floor. Its movement is concurrent with the EAR.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 27, rifting/East_African_Rift3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Competing theories on geologic evolution[edit]<br>Over time, many theories have tried to clarify the evolution of the East African Rift. In 1972 it was proposed that the EAR was not caused by tectonic activity, but rather by differences in crustal density. Since the 1990s, evidence has been found in favor of mantle plumes beneath the EAR. Others proposed an African superplume causing mantle deformation. Although the effects of deep-rooted mantle plumes are an important hypothesis, their location and dynamics are poorly understood, and a matter of active research. The question is still debated.<br>The conceptual extensional difference between plume models and the superplume model placed beneath the East African Rift. Modified from Hansen et al. 2012.<br>Maps of four different depth slices of the Shear-velocity (Vs) model developed by Emry et al. 2018. The forms of the zones with lower Vs (colors toward red) suggest the hotter structures in the Mantle. The distinguishing fourth map depicts a depth below the 410 km discontinuity where Vs steeps up (getting overall bluer), but it still displays the signature of a plume at the substrate of the East African Rift. In the white box, the Vs vertical profile at 10°N, 40°E illustrates the increase of velocity with depth and the effect of the 410 km discontinuity.<br>The most recent and accepted view is the theory put forth in 2009: that magmatism and plate tectonics have a feedback with one another, controlled by oblique rifting conditions. According to this theory, lithospheric thinning generates volcanic activity, further increasing  magmatic processes such as intrusions and numerous small plumes. These processes further thin the lithosphere in saturated areas, making the thinning lithosphere behave like a mid-ocean ridge. According to marine geologist Kathleen Crane, the rift could eventually cause eastern Africa to separate from the mainland, although this potential event could take tens of millions of years.<br>Studies that contribute to the broader understanding on the evolution of rifts can be grouped into the techniques of isotope geochemistry, seismic tomography and geodynamical modeling.<br>Isotope geochemistry[edit]<br>The varying geochemical signatures of a suite of Ethiopian lavas suggest multiple plume sources: at least one of deep mantle origin, and one from within the subcontinental lithosphere. In accordance, a 2014 study compares the geochemical signature of rare earth isotopes from xenoliths and lava samples collected in the EAR. The results corroborate the coexistence of a superplume "common to the entire rift" with another mantle material source being either of subcontinental type or of mid-ocean ridge type.<br>Seismic tomography[edit]<br>The geophysical method of seismic tomography is a suitable tool to investigate Earth's subsurface structures deeper than the crust. It is an inverse problem technique that models which are the velocities of the inner Earth that reproduce the seismographic data recorded all around the world. Recent improvements of tomographic Earth models of P-wave and S-wave velocities suggest that a superplume upwelling from the lower mantle at the northeastern EAR feeds plumes of smaller scale into the upper mantle.<br>Geodynamical modeling[edit]<br>Parallel to geological and geophysical measures (e.g. isotope ratios and seismic velocities) it is constructive to test hypotheses on computer based geodynamical models. A 3D numerical geodynamic model of the plume-crust coupling was capable of reproducing the lateral asymmetry of the EAR around the Tanzania craton. Numerical modeling of plume-induced continental break-up shows two distinct stages, crustal rifting followed by lithospheric breakup, and the upwelling between stages of an upper mantle plume.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift6.txt
> part6 -------------------<br>Volcanism and seismicity[edit]<br>The East African Rift Zone includes a number of active and dormant volcanoes, among them: Mount Kilimanjaro, Mount Kenya, Mount Longonot, Menengai Crater, Mount Karisimbi, Mount Nyiragongo, Mount Meru and Mount Elgon, as well as the Crater Highlands in Tanzania. Although most of these mountains lie outside of the rift valley, the EAR created them.<br>Notable active examples of EAR volcanism include Erta Ale, Dalaffilla (also called Gabuli, Alu-Dalafilla), and Ol Doinyo Lengai. Erta Ale is a basaltic shield volcano in the Afar Region of northeastern Ethiopia,  active continuously since at least 1967, with a summit lava lake documented since at least 1906. The 2008 eruption of Dalafilla, its only documented activity since the start of the Holocene, is the largest recorded eruption in Ethiopian history. Ol Doinyo Lengai is currently the only active natrocarbonatite volcano on Earth. Its magma contains almost no silica; typical lava flows have viscosities of less than 100 Pa s, comparable to olive oil at 26 °C. EAR-related volcanic structures with dated activity since the onset of the Holocene include approximately 50 in Ethiopia, 17 in Kenya, and 9 in Tanzania.<br>The EAR is the largest seismically active rift system on Earth today. The majority of earthquakes occur near the Afar Depression, with the largest typically occurring along or near major border faults. Seismic events in the past century are estimated to have reached a maximum moment magnitude of 7.0. The seismicity trends parallel to the rift system, with a shallow focal depth of 12–15 km (7.5–9.3 mi) beneath the rift axis. Further away from the rift axis, focal depths can be below 30 km (19 mi). Focal mechanism solutions strike NE and frequently demonstrate normal dip-slip faulting, although left-lateral motion is also observed.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, rifting/Rio_Grande_rift3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Geologic history[edit]<br>Seismic profile from the Rio Grande Rift Seismic Transect (RISTRA) experiment crossing the rift system, with Cenozoic extended terrain of the rift and southern Great Basin tectonic provinces indicated.<br>The Rio Grande rift's tectonic evolution is fairly complex.  The fundamental change in the western margin of the North American plate from one of subduction to a transform boundary occurred during Cenozoic time.  The Farallon plate continued to be subducted beneath western North America for at least 100 million years during Late Mesozoic and early Cenozoic time. Compressional and transpressional deformation incurred by the Laramide Orogeny lasted until about 40 Ma in New Mexico. This deformation may have been a result of the coupling between the subducting Farallon plate and the overlying North American plate. Crustal thickening occurred due to Laramide compression. After the Laramide Orogeny and until 20 Ma, a major period of volcanic activity occurred throughout the southwestern United States.  Injection of hot magmas weakened the lithosphere and allowed for later extension of the region.<br>Cenozoic extension started about 30 million years ago (Ma).  There are two phases of extension observed: late Oligocene and middle Miocene. The first period of extension produced broad,  shallow basins bounded by low-angle faults. The crust may have been extended as much as 50% during this episode. Widespread magmatism in mid-Cenozoic time suggests that the lithosphere was hot,  the brittle-ductile transition was relatively shallow. There is evidence that the second period of extension began earlier in the central and northern Rio Grande rift than in the south. A third period of extension may have begun in the early Pliocene.<br>One theory is that the Colorado Plateau acts as a semi-independent microplate and one way of explaining the creation of the Rio Grande rift is by the simple rotation of the Colorado Plateau 1-1.5° in a clockwise direction relative to the North American craton. Other explanations that have been offered are that the extension is driven by mantle forces, such as large-scale mantle upwelling or small-scale mantle convection at the edge of the stable craton; collapse of over-thickened continental crust; initiation of transform faulting along the western margin of the North American plate; or detachment of a fragment of the Farallon plate beneath the Rio Grande region that enhanced asthenospheric upwelling in the slab window.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>The East African Rift (EAR) or East African Rift System (EARS) is an active continental rift zone in East Africa. The EAR began developing around the onset of the Miocene, 22–25 million years ago. It was formerly considered to be part of a larger Great Rift Valley that extended north to Asia Minor.<br>A narrow zone, the rift is a developing divergent tectonic plate boundary where the African Plate is in the process of splitting into two tectonic plates, called the Somali Plate and the Nubian Plate, at a rate of 6–7 mm (0.24–0.28 in) per year.  The rift system consists of three microplates, the Victoria Microplate to the north, and the Rovuma and Lwandle microplates to the south.  The Victoria Microplate is rotating anti-clockwise with respect to the African plate. Its rotation is caused by the configuration of mechanically weaker and stronger lithospheric regions in the EARS.<br>Many of the African Great Lakes lie within the Rift Valley.

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Petrology[edit]<br>An artificial rendering of the Albertine Rift, which forms the western branch of the East African Rift. Visible features include (from background to foreground): Lake Albert, the Rwenzori Mountains, Lake Edward, the volcanic Virunga Mountains, Lake Kivu, and the northern part of Lake Tanganyika<br>The African continental crust is generally cool and strong. Many cratons are found throughout the EAR, such as the Tanzania and Kaapvaal cratons. The cratons are thick, and have survived for billions of years with little tectonic activity. They are characterized by greenstone belts, tonalites, and other high-grade metamorphic lithologies. The cratons are of significant importance in terms of mineral resources, with major deposits of gold, antimony, iron, chromium and nickel.<br>A large volume of continental flood basalts erupted during the Oligocene, with the majority of the volcanism coinciding with the opening of the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden approximately 30 Ma. The composition of the volcanics are a continuum of ultra-alkaline to tholeiitic and felsic rocks. It has been suggested that the diversity of the compositions could be partially explained by different mantle source regions. The EAR also cuts through old sedimentary rocks deposited in ancient basins.

### GROUND TRUTH 8, ranked not in top 100, rifting/Rift4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Magmatism[edit]<br>Volcano-tectonic landforms connected to rifting on Reykjanes Peninsula, Iceland: faults, fissures, elongated volcanoes of subglacial origin, postglacial lava fields<br>Many rifts are the sites of at least minor magmatic activity, particularly in the early stages of rifting. Alkali basalts and bimodal volcanism are common products of rift-related magmatism.<br>Recent studies indicate that post-collisional granites in collisional orogens are the product of rifting magmatism at converged plate margins.

### GROUND TRUTH 9, ranked 9, rifting/Madagascar_Plate3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Rifting[edit]<br>The Madagascar plate experienced two major rifting events during the break-up of Gondwana. First, it separated from Africa about 160 Mya (million years ago), then from the Seychelles and India 66–90 Mya.<br>The first rifting event, separation from Somalia and the rest of Africa, caused displacement along the Davie Ridge, in the Mozambique Channel to the west of the islands, a now extinct transform. The rifting is also associated with extensive deformation as well as volcanism in the late Cretaceous and Cenozoic (Eocene to Miocene).<br>The second separation caused volcanism in the southern part of the island as well as further south, such as on Marion Island.  The volcanism was so extensive that in the late Cretaceous Madagascar may have been entirely covered in flood basalts from volcanism associated with this second rifting event.  It was at this point in the end of the Cretaceous that Madagascar became entirely isolated from any other continent.

### GROUND TRUTH 10, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift8.txt
> part8 -------------------<br>Discoveries in human evolution[edit]<br>Main articles: Human evolution and Timeline of human evolution<br>The Rift Valley in East Africa has been a rich source of hominid fossils that allow the study of human evolution.  The rapidly eroding highlands quickly filled the valley with sediments, creating a favorable environment for the preservation of remains. The bones of several hominid ancestors of modern humans have been found here, including those of "Lucy", a partial australopithecine skeleton discovered by anthropologist Donald Johanson dating back over 3 million years. Richard and Mary Leakey have also done significant work in this region.<br>In 2008, two other hominid ancestors were discovered here: a 10-million-year-old ape called Chororapithecus abyssinicus, found in the Afar rift in eastern Ethiopia, and Nakalipithecus nakayamai, which is also 10 million years old.

### GROUND TRUTH 11, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Geologic evolution[edit]<br>Prior to the rift's formation, enormous continental flood basalts erupted, uplifting the Ethiopian, Somali, and East African plateaus. The first stage of rifting of the EAR was characterized by rift localization and magmatism along the entire rift zone. Periods of extension alternated with relative inactivity. There was also the reactivation of a pre-Cambrian weakness in the crust, a suture zone of multiple cratons, displacement along large boundary faults, and the development of deep asymmetric basins. The second stage of rifting was characterized by the deactivation of large boundary faults, the development of internal fault segments, and the concentration of magmatic activity towards the rifts.<br>Today, the narrow rift segments of the East African Rift system form zones of localized strain. These rifts are the result of the actions of numerous normal faults which are typical of all tectonic rift zones. As aforementioned, voluminous magmatism and continental flood basalts characterize some of the rift segments, while other segments, such as the Western branch, have only very small volumes of volcanic rock.

### GROUND TRUTH 12, ranked not in top 100, rifting/Madagascar_Plate2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Assembly of Gondwana[edit]<br>Madagascar was formerly located in the central part of the supercontinent Gondwana. It contains part of the East African Orogen, which formed in the Neoproterozoic to Cambrian assembly of the Gondwana. This heavily influenced the geology of central and northern Madagascar.<br>The entire island can be divided into four tectonic and geologic units: the Antongil block, the Antananarivo block, the Bekily Belt in the south, and the Bemarivo Belt in the far north.<br>The Antongil Block is characterized by a 3.2 Ga gneiss intruded by granite that has undergone greenschist facies metamorphism.<br>The Antananarivo Block contains 2.5 Ga gneiss layered with younger granitoids and gabbros. It has metamorphosed to granulite facies conditions.<br>The Bemarivo Belt contains two regions, metasedimentary gneisses in the southern part and granitic domes in the north.<br>The Bekily Belt is made up of mostly sedimentary protoliths and granulite and upper amphibolite grade gneisses.<br>The blocks in the northern part of the island are made up of Archean cratonic material. The Antongil block has been linked with the Dharwar Formation of India, however the Antananarivo block to the west has been too heavily altered to link easily to another continent.<br>The central part of the island contains metasediments from African and Indian continental shelves. This is the Itremo Group, which also contains intrusions of material from the Antongil block. The Itremo sheet was folded in the amalgamation of Madagascar ~700 Mya, and now contains upright folds, divergent reverse faults, and strike-slip faults.

### GROUND TRUTH 13, ranked not in top 100, rifting/East_African_Rift7.txt
> part7 -------------------<br>Effect on climate[edit]<br>The East African Rift system affects regional, continental and even global climate. Regions of higher elevation, including the Ethiopian Highlands and the Kenya Highlands are hotspots of higher rainfall amid the semi-arid to arid lowlands of East Africa. Lakes which form within the rift, including Lake Victoria, have a large effect on regional climate. They are a source of water vapour, and also lead to the formation of lake breeze systems, which affect weather across large areas of East Africa. The east to west river valleys within the rift system, including the Turkana Channel in northern Kenya and the Zambezi river valley, concentrate low-level easterly winds and accelerate them towards Central Africa. This leaves East Africa drier than it otherwise would be, and also supports the high rainfall in the Congo Basin rainforest. The formation of the east-west valleys could in turn be important for the aridification of East Africa over millions of years.<br>The barrier presented by EARS concentrates monsoonal winds (known as the Somali Jet) in the western Indian Ocean. The Somali Jet supplies water vapour for the high rainfall during the Indian Monsoon and is responsible for roughly half the global cross-equatorial atmospheric mass flux in the lower-branch of Hadley Circulation.

### GROUND TRUTH 14, ranked not in top 100, rifting/Rio_Grande_rift1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br><br>The Rio Grande rift is a north-trending continental rift zone. It separates the Colorado Plateau in the west from the interior of the North American craton on the east. The rift extends from central Colorado in the north to the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, in the south. The rift zone consists of four basins that have an average width of 50 kilometres (31 mi). The rift can be observed on location at Rio Grande National Forest, White Sands National Park, Santa Fe National Forest, and Cibola National Forest, among other locations.<br>The Rio Grande rift has been an important site for humans for a long time, because it provides a north–south route that follows a major river. The Rio Grande follows the course of the rift from southern Colorado to El Paso, where it turns southeast and flows toward the Gulf of Mexico. Important cities, including Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Taos, Española, Las Cruces, El Paso, and Ciudad Juárez, lie within the rift.

### GROUND TRUTH 15, ranked 21, rifting/Rio_Grande_rift2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Geology[edit]<br>The Rio Grande rift represents the easternmost manifestation of widespread extension in the western U.S. during the past 35 million years. The rift consists of three major basins and many smaller basins, less than 100 square kilometres (39 sq mi). The three major basins (from northernmost to southernmost) are the San Luis, Española, and Albuquerque basins. The rift's northern extent is delineated by the upper Arkansas River basin between Leadville and Salida, Colorado. Further south, the rift is defined by a network of smaller, less topographically distinct alternating basins and ranges. The distinction between these smaller basins and those of the Basin and Range Province becomes blurred in northern Mexico.<br>Basin size generally decreases to the north in the rift, though the Española covers approximately 120 kilometres (75 mi) north–south and 40 kilometres (25 mi) east–west, and the San Luis is roughly 120 by 80 kilometres (75 by 50 mi). These basins may contain smaller units within them, such as the Alamosa basin within the San Luis, which is bounded by the San Juan and Tusas mountains on the west and the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in the east. The Albuquerque basin is the largest of the three basins, spanning 160 kilometres (99 mi) north–south and 86 kilometres (53 mi) east–west at its widest points. It is the oldest of the three major basins, and contains 7,350 metres (24,110 ft) of Paleogene clastic sediments deposited on Precambrian basement. The southernmost Albuquerque basin contains pre-rift volcanic deposits, while the central and northern portions contain volcanics erupted during rifting.<br>A generalized cross section of the Albuquerque basin from east to west. Note the half-graben geometry, paleozoic and mesozoic sediments that existed pre-rift, and the large (up to 28%) amount of extension.<br>A generalized cross section of the San Luis basin from east to west. Being further north, this basin has experienced less extension (up to 12%). Also note the lack of pre-rift sediments and thinner profile.<br>In cross-section, the geometry of the basins within the rift are asymmetrical half-grabens, with major fault boundaries on one side and a downward hinge on the other. Which side of the basin has the major fault or the hinge alternates along the rift. The alternation between these half-grabens occurs along transfer faults, which trend across the rift to connect the major basin-bounding faults and occur between basins or, in places, within basins. The Precambrian basement changes relief sharply in this area, from 8,700 metres (28,500 ft) below sea level at the bottom of the Albuquerque basin to 3,300 metres (10,800 ft) above sea level in the nearby Sandia Mountains, which flanks the Albuquerque basin to the east. Flanking mountains are generally taller along the east side of the rift (although some of this relief may be Laramide in origin).  The thickness of the crust increases to the north beneath the rift, where it may be as much as 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) thicker than it is in the south. The crustal thickness underneath the rift is on average 30–35 kilometres (19–22 mi), thinner by 10–15 kilometres (6.2–9.3 mi) than the Colorado Plateau on the west and the Great Plains to the east.<br>Cañones Fault on southeastern margin of Colorado Plateau, near Abiquiú, New Mexico<br>Formation of the rift began with significant deformation and faulting with offsets of many kilometers starting about 35 Ma.  The largest-scale manifestation of rifting involves a pure-shear rifting mechanism, in which both sides of the rift pull apart evenly and slowly, with the lower crust and upper mantle (the lithosphere) stretching like taffy.  This extension is associated with very low seismic velocities in the upper mantle above approximately 400 kilometres (250 mi) depth associated with relatively hot mantle and low degrees of partial melting. This intrusion of the asthenosphere into the lithosphere and continental crust is thought to be responsible for nearly all of the volcanism associated with the Rio Grande rift.<br>The sedimentary fill of the basins consists largely of alluvial fan and mafic volcanic flows. The most alkalic lavas erupted outside the rift. The sediments that were deposited during rifting are commonly known as the Santa Fe Group. This group contains sandstones, conglomerates, and volcanics. Aeolian deposits are also present in some basins.<br>The Rio Grande rift is intersected in northern New Mexico by the NE-SW trending Jemez Lineament which extends well into Arizona. The lineament is defined by aligned volcanic fields and several calderas in the area, including the Valles Caldera National Preserve in the Jemez Mountains. The Jemez Lineament is thought to be a hydrous subduction zone scar, separating Precambrian basement rock of the Yavapai-Mazatzal transition zone from the Mazaztl Province proper. Also on the Colorado Plateau but further north lies the San Juan volcanic field in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado.<br>The youngest eruptions in the rift region are in the Valley of Fires, New Mexico, and are approximately 5,400 years old.  The Socorro, New Mexico, region of the central rift hosts an inflating mid-crustal sill-like magma body at a depth of 19 km that is responsible for anomalously high earthquake activity in the vicinity, including the largest rift-associated earthquakes in historic times (two events of approximately magnitude 5.8) in July and November 1906.  Earth and space-based geodetic measurements indicate ongoing surface uplift above the Socorro magma body at approximately 2 mm/year.<br>A generalized cross section of the Rio Grande Rift, showing lithospheric and asthenospheric structure. Note the magma lenses and volcanics caused by the welling up of the asthenosphere into the crust, and the thinning of the lithosphere<br><br><br><br>Deep seismic image of the Rio Grande rift compiled from the seismic transect shown in the previous figure, showing inferred mantle flow and imaged crust-mantle (Moho) topography (after Wilson et al.)(2005).\<br><br><br><br>A brief timeline showing extension and volcanism in the Rio Grande rift area. The end of the Laramide orogeny was followed by volcanism and then extension. Changes in lava chemistry are also found, resulting from changes in magmatic sources.

### GROUND TRUTH 16, ranked not in top 100, rifting/Rift5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Economic importance[edit]<br>The sedimentary rocks associated with continental rifts host important deposits of both minerals and hydrocarbons.<br>Mineral deposits[edit]<br>SedEx mineral deposits are found mainly in continental rift settings. They form within post-rift sequences when hydrothermal fluids associated with magmatic activity are expelled at the seabed.<br>Oil and gas[edit]<br>Continental rifts are the sites of significant oil and gas accumulations, such as the Viking Graben and the Gulf of Suez Rift. Thirty percent of giant oil and gas fields are found within such a setting. In 1999 it was estimated that there were 200 billion barrels of recoverable oil reserves hosted in rifts. Source rocks are often developed within the sediments filling the active rift (syn-rift), forming either in a lacustrine environment or in a restricted marine environment, although not all rifts contain such sequences. Reservoir rocks may be developed in pre-rift, syn-rift and post-rift sequences. Effective regional seals may be present within the post-rift sequence if mudstones or evaporites are deposited. Just over half of estimated oil reserves are found associated with rifts containing marine syn-rift and post-rift sequences, just under a quarter in rifts with a non-marine syn-rift and post-rift, and an eighth in non-marine syn-rift with a marine post-rift.

### GROUND TRUTH 17, ranked 13, rifting/Rift3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Rift development[edit]<br>Rift initiation[edit]<br>The formation of rift basins and strain localization reflects rift maturity. At the onset of rifting, the upper part of the lithosphere starts to extend on a series of initially unconnected normal faults, leading to the development of isolated basins. In subaerial rifts, for example, drainage at the onset of rifting is generally internal, with no element of through drainage.<br>Mature rift stage[edit]<br>As the rift evolves, some of the individual fault segments grow, eventually becoming linked together to form the larger bounding faults. Subsequent extension becomes concentrated on these faults. The longer faults and wider fault spacing leads to more continuous areas of fault-related subsidence along the rift axis. Significant uplift of the rift shoulders develops at this stage, strongly influencing drainage and sedimentation in the rift basins.<br>During the climax of lithospheric rifting, as the crust is thinned, the Earth's surface subsides and the Moho becomes correspondingly raised. At the same time, the mantle lithosphere becomes thinned, causing a rise of the top of the asthenosphere. This brings high heat flow from the upwelling asthenosphere into the thinning lithosphere, heating the orogenic lithosphere for dehydration melting, typically causing extreme metamorphism at high thermal gradients of greater than 30 °C. The metamorphic products are high to ultrahigh temperature granulites and their associated migmatite and granites in collisional orogens, with possible emplacement of metamorphic core complexes in continental rift zones but oceanic core complexes in spreading ridges. This leads to a kind of orogeneses in extensional settings, which is referred as to rifting orogeny.<br>Post-rift subsidence[edit]<br>Once rifting ceases, the mantle beneath the rift cools and this is accompanied by a broad area of post-rift subsidence. The amount of subsidence is directly related to the amount of thinning during the rifting phase calculated as the beta factor (initial crustal thickness divided by final crustal thickness), but is also affected by the degree to which the rift basin is filled at each stage, due to the greater density of sediments in contrast to water. The simple 'McKenzie model' of rifting, which considers the rifting stage to be instantaneous, provides a good first order estimate of the amount of crustal thinning from observations of the amount of post-rift subsidence. This has generally been replaced by the 'flexural cantilever model', which takes into account the geometry of the rift faults and the flexural isostasy of the upper part of the crust.<br>Multiphase rifting[edit]<br>Some rifts show a complex and prolonged history of rifting, with several distinct phases. The North Sea rift shows evidence of several separate rift phases from the Permian through to the Earliest Cretaceous, a period of over 100 million years.<br>Rifting to break-up[edit]<br>Rifting may lead to continental breakup and formation of oceanic basins. Successful rifting leads to seafloor spreading along a mid-oceanic ridge and a set of conjugate margins separated by an oceanic basin. Rifting may be active, and controlled by mantle convection. It may also be passive, and driven by far-field tectonic forces that stretch the lithosphere. Margin architecture develops due to spatial and temporal relationships between extensional deformation phases. Margin segmentation eventually leads to the formation of rift domains with variations of the Moho topography, including proximal domain with fault-rotated crustal blocks, necking zone with thinning of crustal basement, distal domain with deep sag basins, ocean-continent transition and oceanic domain.<br>Deformation and magmatism interact during rift evolution. Magma-rich and magma-poor rifted margins may be formed. Magma-rich margins include major volcanic features. Globally, volcanic margins represent the majority of passive continental margins. Magma-starved rifted margins are affected by large-scale faulting and crustal hyperextension. As a consequence, upper mantle peridotites and gabbros are commonly exposed and serpentinized along extensional detachments at the seafloor.

### GROUND TRUTH 18, ranked 52, rifting/Rift2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Geometry[edit]<br>Topographic profile of the Malawi Lake<br>Most rifts consist of a series of separate segments that together form the linear zone characteristic of rifts. The individual rift segments have a dominantly half-graben geometry, controlled by a single basin-bounding fault. Segment lengths vary between rifts, depending on the elastic thickness of the lithosphere. Areas of thick colder lithosphere, such as the Baikal Rift have segment lengths in excess of 80 km, while in areas of warmer thin lithosphere, segment lengths may be less than 30 km. Along the axis of the rift the position, and in some cases the polarity (the dip direction), of the main rift bounding fault changes from segment to segment. Segment boundaries often have a more complex structure and generally cross the rift axis at a high angle. These segment boundary zones accommodate the differences in fault displacement between the segments and are therefore known as accommodation zones.<br>Accommodation zones take various forms, from a simple relay ramp at the overlap between two major faults of the same polarity, to zones of high structural complexity, particularly where the segments have opposite polarity. Accommodation zones may be located where older crustal structures intersect the rift axis. In the Gulf of Suez rift, the Zaafarana accommodation zone is located where a shear zone in the Arabian-Nubian Shield meets the rift.<br>Rift flanks or shoulders are elevated areas around rifts. Rift shoulders are typically about 70 km wide. Contrary to what was previously thought, elevated passive continental margins (EPCM) such as the Brazilian Highlands, the Scandinavian Mountains and India's Western Ghats, are not rift shoulders.
