# Query `39`

## Original Question

*Methane clathrates are

solid clathrate compound (more specifically, a clathrate hydrate) in which a large amount of methane is trapped within a crystal structure of water, forming a solid similar to ice.

They mostly are on the bottom of the world's oceans; however, the overly brief wikipedia section for continental deposits suggests that it also occurs in Siberia, northern Canada and Alaska.

How much methane clathrates are believed to be buried in these continental deposits?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6509
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6509
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6509
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6509
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6509
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) methane_clathrates/ocean_chemistry5_2.txt
> to a group of substances called clathrates – substances in which one molecule type forms a crystal-like cage structure and encloses another type of molecule. If the cage-forming molecule is water, it is called a hydrate. If the molecule trapped in the water cage is a gas, it is a gas hydrate, in this case methane hydrate. <br>Methane hydrates can only form under very specific physical, chemical and geological conditions. High water pressures and low temperatures provide the best conditions for methane hydrate formationmethane hydrate formationFurther information on this topic

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) methane_clathrates/BF001445042.txt
> Skip to main content<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Menu<br><br><br><br><br>                            Find a journal<br>                        <br><br>                            Publish with us<br>                        <br><br>                            Track your research<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Cart<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Home<br><br><br><br><br><br>Climatic Change<br><br><br><br><br><br>Article<br><br><br><br>Role of methane clathrates in past and future climates<br><br><br>                            Published: June 1990<br><br><br><br><br>Volume 16, pages 247–281, (1990)<br>                        <br><br>Cite this article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Climatic Change<br><br><br>                                Aims and scope<br>                                <br><br><br>                                Submit manuscript<br>                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Gordon J. MacDonald1 <br><br><br><br><br><br>2025 Accesses<br><br><br><br><br>207 Citations<br><br><br><br><br>23 Altmetric<br><br><br><br><br>2 Mentions<br><br><br>Explore all metrics <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AbstractMethane clathrates are stable at depths greater than about 200 m in permafrost regions and in ocean sediments at water depths greater than about 250 m, provided bottom waters are sufficiently cold. The thickness of the clathrate stability zone depends on surface temperature and geothermal gradient. Average stability zone thickness is about 400 m in cold regions where average surface temperatures are below freezing, 500 m in ocean sediments, and up to 1,500 m in regions of very cold surface temperature (<-15 °C) or in the deep ocean. The concentration of methane relative to water within the zone of stability determines whether or not clathrate will actually occur. The geologic setting of clathrate occurrences, the isotopic composition of the methane, and the methane to ethane plus propane ratio in both the clathrates and the associated pore fluids indicate that methane in clathrates is produced chiefly by anaerobic bacteria. Methane occurrences and the organic carbon content of sediments are the bases used to estimate the amount of carbon currently stored as clathrates. The estimate of about 11,000 Gt of carbon for ocean sediments, and about 400 Gt for sediments under permafrost regions is in rough accord with an independent estimate by Kvenvolden of 10,000 Gt.The shallowness of the clathrate zone of stability makes clathrates vulnerable to surface disturbances. Warming by ocean flooding of exposed continental shelf, and changes in pressure at depth, caused, for example, by sea-level drop, destabilize clathrates under the ocean, while ice-cap growth stabilizes clathrates under the ice cap. The time scale for thermal destabilization is set by the thermal properties of sediments and is on the order of thousands of years. The time required to fix methane in clathrates as a result of surface cooling is much longer, requiring several tens of thousands of years. The sensitivity of clathrates to surface change, the time scales involved, and the large quantities of carbon stored as clathrate indicate that clathrates may have played a significant role in modifying the composition of the atmosphere during the ice ages. The release of methane and its subsequent oxidation to carbon dioxide may be responsible for the observed swings in atmospheric methane and carbon dioxide concentrations during glacial times. Because methane and carbon dioxide are strong infrared absorbers, the release and trapping of methane by clathrates contribute strong feedback mechanisms to the radiative forcing of climate that results from earth's orbital variations.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) other_gases/Natural_gas3_34.txt
> of the gashouse ovens was often used for roofing and other waterproofing purposes, and when mixed with sand and gravel was used for paving streets.<br><br>Crystallized natural gas – clathrates[edit]<br>Huge quantities of natural gas (primarily methane) exist in the form of clathrates under sediment on offshore continental shelves and on land in arctic regions that experience permafrost, such as those in Siberia. Hydrates require a combination of high pressure and low temperature to form.<br>In 2013, Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (J

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) methane_clathrates/BF001445043.txt
> AbstractMethane clathrates are stable at depths greater than about 200 m in permafrost regions and in ocean sediments at water depths greater than about 250 m, provided bottom waters are sufficiently cold. The thickness of the clathrate stability zone depends on surface temperature and geothermal gradient. Average stability zone thickness is about 400 m in cold regions where average surface temperatures are below freezing, 500 m in ocean sediments, and up to 1,500 m in regions of very cold surface temperature (<-15 °C) or in the deep ocean. The concentration of methane relative to water within the zone of stability determines whether or not clathrate will actually occur. The geologic setting of clathrate occurrences, the isotopic composition of the methane, and the methane to ethane plus propane ratio in both the clathrates and the associated pore fluids indicate that methane in clathrates is produced chiefly by anaerobic bacteria. Methane occurrences and the organic carbon content of sediments are the bases used to estimate the amount of carbon currently stored as clathrates. The estimate of about 11,000 Gt of carbon for ocean sediments, and about 400 Gt for sediments under permafrost regions is in rough accord with an independent estimate by Kvenvolden of 10,000 Gt.The shallowness of the clathrate zone of stability makes clathrates vulnerable to surface disturbances. Warming by ocean flooding of exposed continental shelf, and changes in pressure at depth, caused, for example, by sea-level drop, destabilize clathrates under the ocean, while ice-cap growth stabilizes clathrates under the ice cap. The time scale for thermal destabilization is set by the thermal properties of sediments and is on the order of thousands of years. The time required to fix methane in clathrates as a result of surface cooling is much longer, requiring several tens of thousands of years. The sensitivity of clathrates to surface change, the time scales involved, and the large quantities of carbon stored as clathrate indicate that clathrates may have played a significant role in modifying the composition of the atmosphere during the ice ages. The release of methane and its subsequent oxidation to carbon dioxide may be responsible for the observed swings in atmospheric methane and carbon dioxide concentrations during glacial times. Because methane and carbon dioxide are strong infrared absorbers, the release and trapping of methane by clathrates contribute strong feedback mechanisms to the radiative forcing of climate that results from earth's orbital variations.<br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    <br>                                        This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution<br><br><br> to check access.<br>                                <br><br><br>Access this article<br><br><br>Log in via an institution<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Buy article PDF 39,95 €<br><br><br>Price includes VAT (Hong Kong/P.R.China)<br>Instant access to the full article PDF.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Rent this article via DeepDyve<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Institutional subscriptions<br>                                            <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Similar content being viewed by others<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>New Record Ocean Temperatures and Related Climate Indicators in 2023<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>11 January 2024<br><br><br>Lijing Cheng, John Abraham, … Yayang Lu<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Climate Change During the Holocene (Past 12,000 Years)<br>                                        <br><br><br>Chapter<br>© 2015<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Another Year of Record Heat for the Oceans<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>11 January 2023<br><br><br>Lijing Cheng, John Abraham, … Guancheng Li<br><br><br><br><br><br>ReferencesBarnola, J., Raynaud, D., Korotkevich, Y., and Lorius, C.: 1987, 'Vostok Ice Core Provides 160,000-Year Record of Atmospheric CO2, Nature<br>329, 408–414.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bell, P.: 1982, ‘Methane Hydrate and the Carbon Dioxide Question’, in W. Clark (ed.), Carbon Dioxide Review 1982, New York, Oxford, pp. 401–405.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Berger, A.: 1978, ‘Long-term Variations of Daily Insolation and Quaternary Climatic Changes’, J. Atmos. Sci.<br>35, 2362–2367.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bily, C. and Dick, J.: 1974, ‘Naturally Occurring Gas Hydrates in the Mackenzie Delta, N.W.T.’, Bull. Canadian Petrol. Geol.<br>22, 340–352.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bolin, B.: 1986, ‘How Much CO2 Will Remain in the Atmosphere?’, in B. Bolin, B. Döös, J. Jäger, and R. Warrick (eds.), The Greenhouse Effect: Climate Change and Ecosystems, New York, J. Wiley, pp. 93–155.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Brooks, J., Barnard, L., Wiesenburg, D., Kennicutt, M., and Kvenvolden, K.: 1983, ‘Molecular and Isotopic Compositions of Hydrocarbons at Site 533, Deep Sea Drilling Project Leg 76’, Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project<br>76, 377–390, Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Brooks, J., Cox. H., Bryant, W., Kennicutt, M., Mann, R., and McDonald, T.: 1986, ‘Association of Gas Hydrates and Oil Seepage in the Gulf of Mexico’, Org. Geochem.<br>10, 221–234.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Budyko, M., Ronov, A., and Yanshin, A.: 1987, History of the Earth's Atmosphere, New York, Springer.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Carslaw, H. and Jaeger, J.: 1959, Conduction of Heat in Solids, London, Oxford.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Cherskiy, N., Tsarev, V, and Nikitin, S.: 1985, ‘Investigation and Prediction of Conditions of Accumulation of Gas Resources in Gas-Hydrate Pools’, Pet. Geol.<br>21, 65–89.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Cicerone, R. and Oremland, R.: 1988, ‘Biogeochemical Aspects of Atmospheric Methane’, Global Biogeochemical Cycles<br>2 (in press).Clarke, J., St. Amand, P., and Matson, M.: 1986, ‘Possible Causes of Plumes from Bennett Island, Soviet Far Arctic (abstract)’, Am. Assoc. Pet. Geol. Bull.<br>70, 574.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Claypool, G. and Kvenvolden, K.: 1983, ‘Methane and Other Hydrocarbon Gases in Marine Sediment’, Ann. Rev. Earth Planet. Sci.<br>11, 299–327.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Claypool, G., Threlkeld, C., Mankiewicz, P., Arthur, M., and Anderson, T.: 1985, ‘Isotopic Composition of Interstitial Fluids and Origin of Methane in Slope Sediment of the Middle America Trench, Deep Sea Drilling Project Leg 84’, Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project<br>84, 683–691, Washington, DC, U.S. Government Printing Office.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                CLIMAP Project: 1976, ‘The Surface of the Ice-Age Earth’, Science<br>191, 1131–1137.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Clymo, R.: 1984, ‘The Limits to Peat Bog Growth’, Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B303, 605–654.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Collett, T. and Ehlig-Economides, C.: 1983, ‘Detection and Evaluation of the in-situ Natural Gas Hydrates in the North Slope Region’, Alaska, paper SPE 11673 presented at March 23–25, 1983 meeting of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, California Regional Meeting.Craig, H. and Chou, C.: 1982, ‘Methane: The Record in Polar Ice Cores’, Geophys. Res. Lett.<br>9, 1221–1224.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Crank, J.: 1984, Free and Moving Boundary Problems, New York, Oxford.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Davidson, D.: 1983, ‘Gas Hydrates as Clathrate Ices’, in J. Cox (ed.), Natural Gas Hydrates: Properties, Occurrence and Recovery, Woburn, MA: Butterworth, pp. 1–16.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Dobrynin, V., Korotajev, Y., and Plyuschev, D.: 1981, ‘Gas Hydrates: A Possible Energy Resource’, in R. Meyer and J. Olson (eds.), Long-Term Energy Resources, Boston, MA, Pitman, pp. 727–729.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) methane_clathrates/ocean_chemistry5_9.txt
> ates, the gas (large ball) is enclosed in a cage formed by water ­molecules. Scientists call this kind of ­molecular arrangement a clathrate.<br>Methane hydrates and global warming<br>Considering that methane hydrates only form under very specific conditions, it is conceivable that global warming, which as a matter of fact includes warming of the oceans, could affect the stability of gas hydrates. <br>There are indications in the history of the Earth suggesting that climatic changes in the past could have led to the destabilization of methane hydrates


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, methane_clathrates/BF001445042.txt
> Skip to main content<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Menu<br><br><br><br><br>                            Find a journal<br>                        <br><br>                            Publish with us<br>                        <br><br>                            Track your research<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Cart<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Home<br><br><br><br><br><br>Climatic Change<br><br><br><br><br><br>Article<br><br><br><br>Role of methane clathrates in past and future climates<br><br><br>                            Published: June 1990<br><br><br><br><br>Volume 16, pages 247–281, (1990)<br>                        <br><br>Cite this article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Climatic Change<br><br><br>                                Aims and scope<br>                                <br><br><br>                                Submit manuscript<br>                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Gordon J. MacDonald1 <br><br><br><br><br><br>2025 Accesses<br><br><br><br><br>207 Citations<br><br><br><br><br>23 Altmetric<br><br><br><br><br>2 Mentions<br><br><br>Explore all metrics <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AbstractMethane clathrates are stable at depths greater than about 200 m in permafrost regions and in ocean sediments at water depths greater than about 250 m, provided bottom waters are sufficiently cold. The thickness of the clathrate stability zone depends on surface temperature and geothermal gradient. Average stability zone thickness is about 400 m in cold regions where average surface temperatures are below freezing, 500 m in ocean sediments, and up to 1,500 m in regions of very cold surface temperature (<-15 °C) or in the deep ocean. The concentration of methane relative to water within the zone of stability determines whether or not clathrate will actually occur. The geologic setting of clathrate occurrences, the isotopic composition of the methane, and the methane to ethane plus propane ratio in both the clathrates and the associated pore fluids indicate that methane in clathrates is produced chiefly by anaerobic bacteria. Methane occurrences and the organic carbon content of sediments are the bases used to estimate the amount of carbon currently stored as clathrates. The estimate of about 11,000 Gt of carbon for ocean sediments, and about 400 Gt for sediments under permafrost regions is in rough accord with an independent estimate by Kvenvolden of 10,000 Gt.The shallowness of the clathrate zone of stability makes clathrates vulnerable to surface disturbances. Warming by ocean flooding of exposed continental shelf, and changes in pressure at depth, caused, for example, by sea-level drop, destabilize clathrates under the ocean, while ice-cap growth stabilizes clathrates under the ice cap. The time scale for thermal destabilization is set by the thermal properties of sediments and is on the order of thousands of years. The time required to fix methane in clathrates as a result of surface cooling is much longer, requiring several tens of thousands of years. The sensitivity of clathrates to surface change, the time scales involved, and the large quantities of carbon stored as clathrate indicate that clathrates may have played a significant role in modifying the composition of the atmosphere during the ice ages. The release of methane and its subsequent oxidation to carbon dioxide may be responsible for the observed swings in atmospheric methane and carbon dioxide concentrations during glacial times. Because methane and carbon dioxide are strong infrared absorbers, the release and trapping of methane by clathrates contribute strong feedback mechanisms to the radiative forcing of climate that results from earth's orbital variations.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 3, methane_clathrates/BF001445043.txt
> AbstractMethane clathrates are stable at depths greater than about 200 m in permafrost regions and in ocean sediments at water depths greater than about 250 m, provided bottom waters are sufficiently cold. The thickness of the clathrate stability zone depends on surface temperature and geothermal gradient. Average stability zone thickness is about 400 m in cold regions where average surface temperatures are below freezing, 500 m in ocean sediments, and up to 1,500 m in regions of very cold surface temperature (<-15 °C) or in the deep ocean. The concentration of methane relative to water within the zone of stability determines whether or not clathrate will actually occur. The geologic setting of clathrate occurrences, the isotopic composition of the methane, and the methane to ethane plus propane ratio in both the clathrates and the associated pore fluids indicate that methane in clathrates is produced chiefly by anaerobic bacteria. Methane occurrences and the organic carbon content of sediments are the bases used to estimate the amount of carbon currently stored as clathrates. The estimate of about 11,000 Gt of carbon for ocean sediments, and about 400 Gt for sediments under permafrost regions is in rough accord with an independent estimate by Kvenvolden of 10,000 Gt.The shallowness of the clathrate zone of stability makes clathrates vulnerable to surface disturbances. Warming by ocean flooding of exposed continental shelf, and changes in pressure at depth, caused, for example, by sea-level drop, destabilize clathrates under the ocean, while ice-cap growth stabilizes clathrates under the ice cap. The time scale for thermal destabilization is set by the thermal properties of sediments and is on the order of thousands of years. The time required to fix methane in clathrates as a result of surface cooling is much longer, requiring several tens of thousands of years. The sensitivity of clathrates to surface change, the time scales involved, and the large quantities of carbon stored as clathrate indicate that clathrates may have played a significant role in modifying the composition of the atmosphere during the ice ages. The release of methane and its subsequent oxidation to carbon dioxide may be responsible for the observed swings in atmospheric methane and carbon dioxide concentrations during glacial times. Because methane and carbon dioxide are strong infrared absorbers, the release and trapping of methane by clathrates contribute strong feedback mechanisms to the radiative forcing of climate that results from earth's orbital variations.<br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    <br>                                        This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution<br><br><br> to check access.<br>                                <br><br><br>Access this article<br><br><br>Log in via an institution<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Buy article PDF 39,95 €<br><br><br>Price includes VAT (Hong Kong/P.R.China)<br>Instant access to the full article PDF.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Rent this article via DeepDyve<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Institutional subscriptions<br>                                            <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Similar content being viewed by others<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>New Record Ocean Temperatures and Related Climate Indicators in 2023<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>11 January 2024<br><br><br>Lijing Cheng, John Abraham, … Yayang Lu<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Climate Change During the Holocene (Past 12,000 Years)<br>                                        <br><br><br>Chapter<br>© 2015<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Another Year of Record Heat for the Oceans<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>11 January 2023<br><br><br>Lijing Cheng, John Abraham, … Guancheng Li<br><br><br><br><br><br>ReferencesBarnola, J., Raynaud, D., Korotkevich, Y., and Lorius, C.: 1987, 'Vostok Ice Core Provides 160,000-Year Record of Atmospheric CO2, Nature<br>329, 408–414.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bell, P.: 1982, ‘Methane Hydrate and the Carbon Dioxide Question’, in W. Clark (ed.), Carbon Dioxide Review 1982, New York, Oxford, pp. 401–405.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Berger, A.: 1978, ‘Long-term Variations of Daily Insolation and Quaternary Climatic Changes’, J. Atmos. Sci.<br>35, 2362–2367.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bily, C. and Dick, J.: 1974, ‘Naturally Occurring Gas Hydrates in the Mackenzie Delta, N.W.T.’, Bull. Canadian Petrol. Geol.<br>22, 340–352.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Bolin, B.: 1986, ‘How Much CO2 Will Remain in the Atmosphere?’, in B. Bolin, B. Döös, J. Jäger, and R. Warrick (eds.), The Greenhouse Effect: Climate Change and Ecosystems, New York, J. Wiley, pp. 93–155.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Brooks, J., Barnard, L., Wiesenburg, D., Kennicutt, M., and Kvenvolden, K.: 1983, ‘Molecular and Isotopic Compositions of Hydrocarbons at Site 533, Deep Sea Drilling Project Leg 76’, Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project<br>76, 377–390, Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Brooks, J., Cox. H., Bryant, W., Kennicutt, M., Mann, R., and McDonald, T.: 1986, ‘Association of Gas Hydrates and Oil Seepage in the Gulf of Mexico’, Org. Geochem.<br>10, 221–234.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Budyko, M., Ronov, A., and Yanshin, A.: 1987, History of the Earth's Atmosphere, New York, Springer.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Carslaw, H. and Jaeger, J.: 1959, Conduction of Heat in Solids, London, Oxford.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Cherskiy, N., Tsarev, V, and Nikitin, S.: 1985, ‘Investigation and Prediction of Conditions of Accumulation of Gas Resources in Gas-Hydrate Pools’, Pet. Geol.<br>21, 65–89.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Cicerone, R. and Oremland, R.: 1988, ‘Biogeochemical Aspects of Atmospheric Methane’, Global Biogeochemical Cycles<br>2 (in press).Clarke, J., St. Amand, P., and Matson, M.: 1986, ‘Possible Causes of Plumes from Bennett Island, Soviet Far Arctic (abstract)’, Am. Assoc. Pet. Geol. Bull.<br>70, 574.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Claypool, G. and Kvenvolden, K.: 1983, ‘Methane and Other Hydrocarbon Gases in Marine Sediment’, Ann. Rev. Earth Planet. Sci.<br>11, 299–327.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Claypool, G., Threlkeld, C., Mankiewicz, P., Arthur, M., and Anderson, T.: 1985, ‘Isotopic Composition of Interstitial Fluids and Origin of Methane in Slope Sediment of the Middle America Trench, Deep Sea Drilling Project Leg 84’, Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project<br>84, 683–691, Washington, DC, U.S. Government Printing Office.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                CLIMAP Project: 1976, ‘The Surface of the Ice-Age Earth’, Science<br>191, 1131–1137.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Clymo, R.: 1984, ‘The Limits to Peat Bog Growth’, Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B303, 605–654.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Collett, T. and Ehlig-Economides, C.: 1983, ‘Detection and Evaluation of the in-situ Natural Gas Hydrates in the North Slope Region’, Alaska, paper SPE 11673 presented at March 23–25, 1983 meeting of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, California Regional Meeting.Craig, H. and Chou, C.: 1982, ‘Methane: The Record in Polar Ice Cores’, Geophys. Res. Lett.<br>9, 1221–1224.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Crank, J.: 1984, Free and Moving Boundary Problems, New York, Oxford.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Davidson, D.: 1983, ‘Gas Hydrates as Clathrate Ices’, in J. Cox (ed.), Natural Gas Hydrates: Properties, Occurrence and Recovery, Woburn, MA: Butterworth, pp. 1–16.<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Dobrynin, V., Korotajev, Y., and Plyuschev, D.: 1981, ‘Gas Hydrates: A Possible Energy Resource’, in R. Meyer and J. Olson (eds.), Long-Term Energy Resources, Boston, MA, Pitman, pp. 727–729.
