# Query `5`

## Original Question

*As far as I understand it is perfectly valid for air to have 100% humidity. At that point, all water can still exist in form of vapor, non-condensed.Does it immediately start to rain if humidity is >100%?If so, why do we have slight rain and heavy rain if any 0.1% above 100% drops out immediately? That should always be only a small amount of rain and rainstorms could not be explained.If not, what is the limit of humidity if not 100% and why can it exceed 100%?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0385
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.1429
recall_100: 0.1429
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0578
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0578
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0055
map_cut_100: 0.0055
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) humidity_and_rain/humidity_when_rains4_1.txt
> absorbing vapor’ like a sponge, but surely its more than just temperature. The presence of air (or other gas) must take up usable real estate, does it not? This would explain why water boils more readily at lower pressures. Could we say, the vapor is competing for space with the air.</p<br><pBack on point to this entry: I also note that after summer rains, the humidity seems to drop. I always thought it was a drier air mass ‘moving in’ but could just be the dehumidifying effect of the rain itself

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) wind_movement/wind_formation3_4.txt
> water—in any shape or form—from the atmosphere to the earth’s surface. Examples of precipitation include rain, snow, sleet, and hail.<br> <br>The temperature of an air mass determines how much water vapor the air can hold. Humidity is a measure of the amount of water vapor in the air and is reported as the percentage of the maximum amount of water vapor that air can carry at a particular temperature. At 100 percent humidity, air is has reached its water vapor capacity and can carry no more. The water vapor molecules clump together when humidity is at 100 percent,

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) contrial_formation/the_science_of_contrails5_6.txt
> fast as the airplane goes across the sky, perhaps lasting only a few minutes or less. The air that the airplane is passing through is somewhat moist, and there is only a small amount of water vapor available to form a contrail. The ice particles that do form quickly return again to a vapor state.<br> <br> <br>Persistent (non-spreading) contrails look like long white lines that remain visible after the airplane has disappeared. This shows that the air where the airplane is flying is quite humid, and there is a large amount of water vapor available to form a contrail. Persistent

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) propagation_of_sound_after_lightning/what_causes_thunder_htm4.txt
> I live in the Old Capital of Fiji which is Levuka. There was a thunderstorm that struck levuka that I have come across in my life and was really scary. As we celebrate easter on Friday the weather was cloudy and you can't see any sky and I was telling my husband, see even everything around us respects that today we are remembering the death of our saviour and every living things respect. And on sunday the resurrection of Jesus. Everything is like what the bible says but not that strong. This the first time for me to see and experience a thunderstorm, because most of the time we experience hurricanes. I was really scared and started reading the bible and everything was like the end of the world. Makes me search for things that can be done in this kind of situation.This thunder is like an earthquake again. It was so close and I see people running around and enjoying the weather.    <br><br><br>            anon71373        <br><br>            March 18, 2010        <br>No such thing as heat lightning. Sound does not travel as far as light. A far away lightning storm will create what people call heat lightning (could be 50 miles away). Common misconception. You see lightning flashes but you don't hear thunder. Happens all the time. Usually happens during clear nights where the light can travel far, and the distant thunderstorm cloud cannot be seen.      <br><br><br>            anon68668        <br><br>            March 3, 2010        <br>just five minutes ago in my town, there were small chunks of hail falling. then afterward, there was thunder.    <br><br><br>            anon64881        <br><br>            February 10, 2010        <br>we have thunder rain and lighting right now.    <br><br><br>            anon64679        <br><br>            February 8, 2010        <br>why does lighting hit the trees on so many occasions?    <br><br><br>            anon56927        <br><br>            December 18, 2009        <br>we had thunder but no lightning, why is that? No rain either.    <br><br><br>            anon43686        <br><br>            yesterday        <br>the lightning just shot out in different directions and didn't happen to pass by where you were.    <br><br><br>            anon40744        <br><br>            August 10, 2009        <br>we had thunder today --all day-- and not one time did we have lightning! Explain that one please!    <br><br><br>            anon35647        <br><br>            July 6, 2009        <br>its heat lightning    <br><br><br>            anon2628        <br><br>            July 19, 2007        <br>It's because the thunder is too far away too be heard.  Thunder always follows lighting    <br><br><br>            anon2470        <br><br>            July 12, 2007        <br>I live in the Caribbean and sometime lightening flashes but no sound of thunder why is this?    <br>Post your comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Please enter the following code:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Login:<br><br><br><br>Forgot password?<br><br><br>Register:

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) humidity_and_rain/humidity_when_rains3_42.txt
> p<strongNote in this second example</strong<brNote in this second example from Allison, the actual air temperature is 80 F, it is raining, and the relative humidity is 75%.  This means that the raindrops are at or below the dewpoint temperature of 71 F. This all makes sense.  But the “Feels Like” temperature is 84 F which is higher than the air temperature.  Why?  Because it is calculated based on humidity which is still relatively high.  Do you think that if you were standing in that rain you would feel


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Kelvin_equation1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>The Kelvin equation describes the change in vapour pressure due to a curved liquid–vapor interface, such as the surface of a droplet. The vapor pressure at a convex curved surface is higher than that at a flat surface. The Kelvin equation is dependent upon thermodynamic principles and does not allude to special properties of materials. It is also used for determination of pore size distribution of a porous medium using adsorption porosimetry.  The equation is named in honor of William Thomson, also known as Lord Kelvin.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Convective_available_potential_energy1.txt
> part1 -------------------<br>In meteorology, convective available potential energy (commonly abbreviated as CAPE), is the integrated amount of work that the upward (positive) buoyancy force would perform on a given mass of air (called an air parcel) if it rose vertically through the entire atmosphere. Positive CAPE will cause the air parcel to rise, while negative CAPE will cause the air parcel to sink. <br>Nonzero CAPE is an indicator of atmospheric instability in any given atmospheric sounding, a necessary condition for the development of cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds with attendant severe weather hazards.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Kelvin_equation4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Derivation using the Gibbs free energy[edit]<br>The formal definition of the Gibbs free energy for a parcel of volume <br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>{\displaystyle V}<br><br>, pressure <br><br><br><br>P<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P}<br><br> and temperature <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> is given by:<br>G<br>=<br>U<br>+<br>p<br>V<br>−<br>T<br>S<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle G=U+pV-TS,}<br>where <br><br><br><br>U<br><br><br>{\displaystyle U}<br><br> is the internal energy and <br><br><br><br>S<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S}<br><br> is the entropy. The differential form of the Gibbs free energy can be given as<br>d<br>G<br>=<br>−<br>S<br>d<br>T<br>+<br>V<br>d<br>P<br>+<br><br>∑<br><br>i<br>=<br>1<br><br><br>k<br><br><br><br>μ<br><br>i<br><br><br>d<br><br>n<br><br>i<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle dG=-SdT+VdP+\sum _{i=1}^{k}\mu _{i}dn_{i},}<br>where <br><br><br><br>μ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mu }<br><br> is the chemical potential and <br><br><br><br>n<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n}<br><br> is the number of moles. Suppose we have a substance <br><br><br><br>x<br><br><br>{\displaystyle x}<br><br> which contains no impurities. Let's consider the formation of a single drop of <br><br><br><br>x<br><br><br>{\displaystyle x}<br><br> with radius <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> containing <br><br><br><br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle n_{x}}<br><br> molecules from its pure vapor. The change in the Gibbs free energy due to this process is<br>Δ<br>G<br>=<br><br>G<br><br>d<br><br><br>−<br><br>G<br><br>v<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta G=G_{d}-G_{v},}<br>where <br><br><br><br><br>G<br><br>d<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle G_{d}}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br>G<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle G_{v}}<br><br> are the Gibbs energies of the drop and vapor respectively. Suppose we have <br><br><br><br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle N_{i}}<br><br> molecules in the vapor phase initially. After the formation of the drop, this number decreases to <br><br><br><br><br>N<br><br>f<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle N_{f}}<br><br>, where<br>N<br><br>f<br><br><br>=<br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>−<br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle N_{f}=N_{i}-n_{x}.}<br>Let <br><br><br><br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle g_{v}}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle g_{l}}<br><br> represent the Gibbs free energy of a molecule in the vapor and liquid phase respectively. The change in the Gibbs free energy is then:<br>Δ<br>G<br>=<br><br>N<br><br>f<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>+<br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br>+<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br>−<br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta G=N_{f}g_{v}+n_{x}g_{l}+4\pi r^{2}\sigma -N_{i}g_{v},}<br>where <br><br><br><br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 4\pi r^{2}\sigma }<br><br> is the Gibbs free energy associated with an interface with radius of curvature <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> and surface tension <br><br><br><br>σ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \sigma }<br><br>. The equation can be rearranged to give<br>Δ<br>G<br>=<br>(<br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br>−<br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br>)<br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>+<br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br>+<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br>−<br><br>N<br><br>i<br><br><br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>=<br><br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br>(<br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br>−<br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>)<br>+<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta G=(N_{i}-n_{x})g_{v}+n_{x}g_{l}+4\pi r^{2}\sigma -N_{i}g_{v}=n_{x}(g_{l}-g_{v})+4\pi r^{2}\sigma .}<br>Let <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{l}}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{v}}<br><br> be the volume occupied by one molecule in the liquid phase and vapor phase respectively. If the drop is considered to be spherical, then<br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br>=<br><br><br>4<br>3<br><br><br>π<br><br>r<br><br>3<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n_{x}v_{l}={\frac {4}{3}}\pi r^{3}.}<br>The number of molecules in the drop is then given by<br>n<br><br>x<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle n_{x}={\frac {4\pi r^{3}}{3v_{l}}}.}<br>The change in Gibbs energy is then<br>Δ<br>G<br>=<br><br><br><br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br>−<br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>)<br>+<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta G={\frac {4\pi r^{3}}{3v_{l}}}(g_{l}-g_{v})+4\pi r^{2}\sigma .}<br>The differential form of the Gibbs free energy of one molecule at constant temperature and constant number of molecules can be given by:<br>d<br>g<br>=<br>(<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>v<br><br><br>)<br>d<br>P<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle dg=(v_{l}-v_{v})dP.}<br>If we assume that <br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br>v<br><br><br>≫<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{v}\gg v_{l}}<br><br> then<br>d<br>g<br>≃<br>−<br><br>v<br><br>v<br><br><br>d<br>P<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle dg\simeq -v_{v}dP.}<br>The vapor phase is also assumed to behave like an ideal gas, so<br>v<br><br>v<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br>P<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{v}={\frac {kT}{P}},}<br>where <br><br><br><br>k<br><br><br>{\displaystyle k}<br><br> is the Boltzmann constant. Thus, the change in the Gibbs free energy for one molecule is<br>Δ<br>g<br>=<br>−<br>k<br>T<br><br>∫<br><br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br>P<br><br>P<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta g=-kT\int \limits _{P_{sat}}^{P}{\frac {dP}{P}},}<br>where <br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle P_{sat}}<br><br> is the saturated vapor pressure of <br><br><br><br>x<br><br><br>{\displaystyle x}<br><br> over a flat surface and <br><br><br><br>P<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P}<br><br> is the actual vapor pressure over the liquid. Solving the integral, we have<br>Δ<br>g<br>=<br><br>g<br><br>l<br><br><br>−<br><br>g<br><br>v<br><br><br>=<br>−<br>k<br>T<br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta g=g_{l}-g_{v}=-kT\ln {\Bigl (}{\frac {P}{P_{sat}}}{\Bigr )}.}<br>The change in the Gibbs free energy following the formation of the drop is then<br>Δ<br>G<br>=<br>−<br><br><br>4<br>3<br><br><br>π<br><br>r<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>+<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>σ<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta G=-{\frac {4}{3}}\pi r^{3}{\frac {kT}{v_{l}}}\ln {\Bigl (}{\frac {P}{P_{sat}}}{\Bigr )}+4\pi r^{2}\sigma .}<br>The derivative of this equation with respect to <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> is<br>∂<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>Δ<br>G<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>∂<br>r<br><br><br><br>=<br>−<br>4<br>π<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br><br><br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>+<br>8<br>π<br>r<br>σ<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {\partial {\bigl (}\Delta G{\bigr )}}{\partial r}}=-4\pi r^{2}{\frac {kT}{v_{l}}}\ln {\Bigl (}{\frac {P}{P_{sat}}}{\Bigr )}+8\pi r\sigma .}<br>The maximum value occurs when the derivative equals zero. The radius corresponding to this value is:<br>r<br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br>σ<br><br><br>k<br>T<br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r={\frac {2v_{l}\sigma }{kT\ln {\Bigl (}{\frac {P}{P_{sat}}}{\Bigr )}}}.}<br>Rearranging this equation gives the Ostwald–Freundlich form of the Kelvin equation:<br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br><br>v<br><br>l<br><br><br>σ<br><br><br>r<br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \ln {\Bigl (}{\frac {P}{P_{sat}}}{\Bigr )}={\frac {2v_{l}\sigma }{rkT}}.}

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 25, humidity_and_rain/Kelvin_equation5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Apparent paradox[edit]<br>An equation similar to that of Kelvin can be derived for the solubility of small particles or droplets in a liquid, by means of the connection between vapour pressure and solubility, thus the Kelvin equation also applies to solids, to slightly soluble liquids, and their solutions if the partial pressure <br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p}<br><br> is replaced by the solubility of the solid (<br><br><br><br>c<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c}<br><br>) (or a second liquid) at the given radius, <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br>, and <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br> by the solubility at a plane surface (<br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br>). Hence small particles (like small droplets) are more soluble than larger ones.  The equation would then be given by:<br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>c<br><br>c<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>γ<br><br>V<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>r<br>R<br>T<br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \ln {\frac {c}{c_{\rm {sat}}}}={\frac {2\gamma V_{\text{m}}}{rRT}}.}<br>These results led to the problem of how new phases can ever arise from old ones. For example, if a container filled with water vapour at slightly below the saturation pressure is suddenly cooled, perhaps by adiabatic expansion, as in a cloud chamber, the vapour may become supersaturated with respect to liquid water. It is then in a metastable state, and we may expect condensation to take place. A reasonable molecular model of condensation would seem to be that two or three molecules of water vapour come together to form a tiny droplet, and that this nucleus of condensation then grows by accretion, as additional vapour molecules happen to hit it. The Kelvin equation, however, indicates that a tiny droplet like this nucleus, being only a few ångströms in diameter, would have a vapour pressure many times that of the bulk liquid. As far as tiny nuclei are concerned, the vapour would not be supersaturated at all. Such nuclei should immediately re-evaporate, and the emergence of a new phase at the equilibrium pressure, or even moderately above it should be impossible. Hence, the over-saturation must be several times higher than the normal saturation value for spontaneous nucleation to occur.<br>There are two ways of resolving this paradox. In the first place, we know the statistical basis of the second law of thermodynamics. In any system at equilibrium, there are always fluctuations around the equilibrium condition, and if the system contains few molecules, these fluctuations may be relatively large. There is always a chance that an appropriate fluctuation may lead to the formation of a nucleus of a new phase, even though the tiny nucleus could be called thermodynamically unstable. The chance of a fluctuation is e, where ΔS is the deviation of the entropy from the equilibrium value.<br>It is unlikely, however, that new phases often arise by this fluctuation mechanism and the resultant spontaneous nucleation. Calculations show that the chance,  e, is usually too small. It is more likely that tiny dust particles act as nuclei in supersaturated vapours or solutions. In the cloud chamber, it is the clusters of ions caused by a passing high-energy particle that acts as nucleation centers. Actually, vapours seem to be much less finicky than solutions about the sort of nuclei required. This is because a liquid will condense on almost any surface, but crystallization requires the presence of crystal faces of the proper kind.<br>For a sessile drop residing on a solid surface, the Kelvin equation is modified near the contact line, due to intermolecular interactions between the liquid drop and the solid surface.  This extended Kelvin equation is given by<br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>c<br><br>c<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>V<br><br>m<br><br><br><br>R<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>2<br>γ<br><br>r<br><br><br>+<br>Π<br><br>)<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \ln {\frac {c}{c_{\rm {sat}}}}={\frac {V_{\text{m}}}{RT}}\left({\frac {2\gamma }{r}}+\Pi \right).}<br>where <br><br><br><br>Π<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Pi }<br><br> is the disjoining pressure that accounts for the intermolecular interactions between the sessile drop and the solid and <br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>2<br>γ<br><br>/<br><br>r<br><br>)<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \left(2\gamma /r\right)}<br><br> is the Laplace pressure, accounting for the curvature-induced pressure inside the liquid drop. When the interactions are attractive in nature, the disjoining pressure, <br><br><br><br>Π<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Pi }<br><br> is negative. Near the contact line, the disjoining pressure dominates over the Laplace pressure, implying that the solubility, <br><br><br><br>c<br><br><br>{\displaystyle c}<br><br> is less than <br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br>. This implies that a new phase can spontaneously grow on a solid surface, even under saturation conditions.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Convective_available_potential_energy3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Significance to thunderstorms[edit]<br>Thunderstorms form when air parcels are lifted vertically.  Deep, moist convection requires a parcel to be lifted to the LFC where it then rises spontaneously until reaching a layer of non-positive buoyancy.  The atmosphere is warm at the surface and lower levels of the troposphere where there is mixing (the planetary boundary layer (PBL)), but becomes substantially cooler with height.  The temperature profile of the atmosphere, the change in temperature, the degree that it cools with height, is the lapse rate.  When the rising air parcel cools more slowly than the surrounding atmosphere, it remains warmer and less dense.  The parcel continues to rise freely (convectively; without mechanical lift) through the atmosphere until it reaches an area of air less dense (warmer) than itself.<br>The amount, and shape, of the positive-buoyancy area modulates the speed of updrafts, thus extreme CAPE can result in explosive thunderstorm development; such rapid development usually occurs when CAPE stored by a capping inversion is released when the "lid" is broken by heating or mechanical lift.  The amount of CAPE also modulates how low-level vorticity is entrained and then stretched in the updraft, with importance to tornadogenesis.  The most important CAPE for tornadoes is within the lowest 1 to 3 km (0.6 to 1.9 mi) of the atmosphere, whilst deep layer CAPE and the width of CAPE at mid-levels is important for supercells.  Tornado outbreaks tend to occur within high CAPE environments.  Large CAPE is required for the production of very large hail, owing to updraft strength, although a rotating updraft may be stronger with less CAPE.  Large CAPE also promotes lightning activity.<br>Two notable days for severe weather exhibited CAPE values over 5 kJ/kg.  Two hours before the 1999 Oklahoma tornado outbreak occurred on May 3, 1999, the CAPE value sounding at Oklahoma City was at 5.89 kJ/kg.  A few hours later, an F5 tornado ripped through the southern suburbs of the city.  Also on May 4, 2007 CAPE values of 5.5 kJ/kg were reached and an EF5 tornado tore through Greensburg, Kansas.  On these days, it was apparent that conditions were ripe for tornadoes and CAPE wasn't a crucial factor.  However, extreme CAPE, by modulating the updraft (and downdraft), can allow for exceptional events, such as the deadly F5 tornadoes that hit Plainfield, Illinois on August 28, 1990 and Jarrell, Texas on May 27, 1997 on days which weren't readily apparent as conducive to large tornadoes.  CAPE was estimated to exceed 8 kJ/kg in the environment of the Plainfield storm and was around 7 kJ/kg for the Jarrell storm.<br>Severe weather and tornadoes can develop in an area of low CAPE values.  The surprise severe weather event that occurred in Illinois and Indiana on April 20, 2004 is a good example.  Importantly in that case, was that although overall CAPE was weak, there was strong CAPE in the lowest levels of the troposphere which enabled an outbreak of minisupercells producing large, long-track, intense tornadoes.

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Kelvin_equation3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>History[edit]<br>The form of the Kelvin equation here is not the form in which it appeared in Lord Kelvin's article of 1871.  The derivation of the form that appears in this article from Kelvin's original equation was presented by Robert von Helmholtz (son of German physicist Hermann von Helmholtz) in his dissertation of 1885. In 2020, researchers found that the equation was accurate down to the 1nm scale.

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, humidity_and_rain/Kelvin_equation2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Formulation[edit]<br>The original form of the Kelvin equation, published in 1871, is: <br><br><br><br><br>p<br>(<br><br>r<br><br>1<br><br><br>,<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br>=<br>P<br>−<br><br><br><br>γ<br><br><br>ρ<br><br><br>v<br>a<br>p<br>o<br>r<br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>ρ<br><br><br>l<br>i<br>q<br>u<br>i<br>d<br><br><br><br>−<br><br>ρ<br><br><br>v<br>a<br>p<br>o<br>r<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>1<br><br>r<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>+<br><br><br>1<br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p(r_{1},r_{2})=P-{\frac {\gamma \,\rho _{\rm {vapor}}}{(\rho _{\rm {liquid}}-\rho _{\rm {vapor}})}}\left({\frac {1}{r_{1}}}+{\frac {1}{r_{2}}}\right),}<br><br><br>where:<br>p<br>(<br>r<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p(r)}<br><br> = vapor pressure at a curved interface of radius <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P}<br><br> = vapor pressure at flat interface (<br><br><br><br>r<br>=<br>∞<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r=\infty }<br><br>) = <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>e<br>q<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{eq}}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \gamma }<br><br> = surface tension<br><br><br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br><br>v<br>a<br>p<br>o<br>r<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \rho _{\rm {vapor}}}<br><br> = density of vapor<br><br><br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br><br>l<br>i<br>q<br>u<br>i<br>d<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \rho _{\rm {liquid}}}<br><br> = density of liquid<br><br><br><br><br><br>r<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle r_{1}}<br><br> , <br><br><br><br><br>r<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle r_{2}}<br><br> = radii of curvature along the principal sections of the curved interface.<br>This may be written in the following form, known as the Ostwald–Freundlich equation:<br><br><br><br><br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>p<br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>2<br>γ<br><br>V<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>r<br>R<br>T<br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \ln {\frac {p}{p_{\rm {sat}}}}={\frac {2\gamma V_{\text{m}}}{rRT}},}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p}<br><br> is the actual vapour pressure,<br><br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br> is the saturated vapour pressure when the surface is flat,<br><br><br><br><br>γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \gamma }<br><br> is the liquid/vapor surface tension, <br><br><br><br><br>V<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle V_{\text{m}}}<br><br> is the molar volume of the liquid, <br><br><br><br>R<br><br><br>{\displaystyle R}<br><br> is the universal gas constant, <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> is the radius of the droplet, and <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> is temperature.<br>Equilibrium vapor pressure depends on droplet size.<br>If the curvature is convex, <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> is positive, then  <br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle pp_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br><br>If the curvature is concave, <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> is negative, then <br><br><br><br>p<br><<br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p<p_{\rm {sat}}}<br>As <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> increases, <br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p}<br><br> decreases towards <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{sat}}<br><br>, and the droplets grow into bulk liquid.<br>If the vapour is cooled, then <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> decreases, but so does <br><br><br><br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br>. This means <br><br><br><br>p<br><br>/<br><br><br>p<br><br><br>s<br>a<br>t<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle p/p_{\rm {sat}}}<br><br> increases as the liquid is cooled. <br><br><br><br>γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \gamma }<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br>V<br><br>m<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle V_{\text{m}}}<br><br> may be treated as approximately fixed, which means that the critical radius <br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br>{\displaystyle r}<br><br> must also decrease.<br>The further a vapour is supercooled, the smaller the critical radius becomes. Ultimately it can become as small as a few molecules, and the liquid undergoes homogeneous nucleation and growth.<br>A system containing a pure homogeneous vapour and liquid in equilibrium. In a thought experiment, a non-wetting tube is inserted into the liquid, causing the liquid in the tube to move downwards. The vapour pressure above the curved interface is then higher than that for the planar interface. This picture provides a simple conceptual basis for the Kelvin equation.<br>The change in vapor pressure can be attributed to changes in the Laplace pressure. When the Laplace pressure rises in a droplet, the droplet tends to evaporate more easily.<br>When applying the Kelvin equation, two cases must be distinguished: A drop of liquid in its own vapor will result in a convex liquid surface, and a bubble of vapor in a liquid will result in a concave liquid surface.
