# Query `50`

## Original Question

*Why are tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal more frequent and stronger than those in the Arabian Sea?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3562
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1667
map_cut_25: 0.1667
map_cut_50: 0.1667
map_cut_100: 0.1667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) india_cyclone/Tropical_cyclone3_117.txt
> b c d WMO/ESCAP Panel on Tropical Cyclones (November 2, 2018). Tropical Cyclone Operational Plan for the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea 2018 (PDF) (Report No. TCP-21). World Meteorological Organization. pp. 11–12. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 2, 2019. Retrieved July 2, 2019.<br><br>^ a b c d e RA I Tropical Cyclone Committee (November 9, 2012). Tropical Cyclone Operational Plan for the South-West Indian Ocean: 2012 (PDF) (Report No.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) india_cyclone/india_html4_1.txt
> primarily resulted from a <br>rare tropical cyclone on 14-17 June, which moved westward into the region from the Bay of Bengal. This <br>storm brought 350 mm of rain in 24 hr to Chennai on 14 June, which is a record single-day total for the month <br>of June. Kioda, in Telangana, reported 670 mm of rain on 17 June, which is also an all-time record. A <br>second tropical storm to affect India formed over the Arabian Sea and crossed northwestern India on 19 June. <br>This system contributed substantially to

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) india_cyclone/Tropical_cyclone4_20.txt
> intensifies into major hurricane near Bermuda". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on December 10, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2021.<br><br>^ Lam, Linda (September 4, 2019). "Why the Eastern Caribbean Sea Can Be a 'Hurricane Graveyard'". The Weather Channel. TWC Product and Technology. Archived from the original on July 4, 2021. Retrieved April 6, 2021.<br><br>^ Sadler, James C.; Kilonsky, Bernard J. (May 1977). The Regeneration of South China Sea Tropical Cyclones in the Bay of Bengal (PDF

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) arid_area/993eaffca1d3d5fabc0c9d73bef06b961_10.txt
> ThinkStockLocated only 15km from Cherrapunji, there’s often dispute between the villages about which should hold the title of world’s wettest.Villagers in Mawsynram use grass to soundproof their huts from deafening rain that pelts their homes during the rainy season.Meteorologists say Mawsynram’s location, close to Bangladesh and the Bay of Bengal is the reason it receives so much rain.“What happens is that whenever any moisture gathers over the Bay of Bengal, it causes precipitation over Mawsynram, leading to a

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) arid_area/993eaffca1d3d5fabc0c9d73bef06b962_10.txt
> villages about which should hold the title of world’s wettest.Villagers in Mawsynram use grass to soundproof their huts from deafening rain that pelts their homes during the rainy season.Meteorologists say Mawsynram’s location, close to Bangladesh and the Bay of Bengal is the reason it receives so much rain.“What happens is that whenever any moisture gathers over the Bay of Bengal, it causes precipitation over Mawsynram, leading to a heavy, long monsoon season,” Sunit Das of the Indian Meteorological Department told AFP


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 5, india_cyclone/nature10552_ref12.txt
> Sign up for alerts<br><br><br><br><br>RSS feed<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>nature<br><br><br><br>letters<br><br><br><br><br>article<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Letter<br>Published: 02 November 2011<br><br>Arabian Sea tropical cyclones intensified by emissions of black carbon and other aerosols<br>Amato T. Evan1, James P. Kossin2,3, Chul ‘Eddy’ Chung4 & …V. Ramanathan5 Show authors<br><br>Nature<br>volume 479, pages 94–97 (2011)Cite this article<br><br><br><br><br>4456 Accesses<br><br><br>139 Citations<br><br><br>121 Altmetric<br><br><br>Metrics details<br><br><br><br><br><br>Subjects<br><br>Environmental sciencesPhysical oceanographySolid Earth sciences<br><br><br><br><br>AbstractThroughout the year, average sea surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea are warm enough to support the development of tropical cyclones1, but the atmospheric monsoon circulation and associated strong vertical wind shear limits cyclone development and intensification, only permitting a pre-monsoon and post-monsoon period for cyclogenesis1,2,3,4. Thus a recent increase in the intensity of tropical cyclones over the northern Indian Ocean5 is thought to be related to the weakening of the climatological vertical wind shear3,4. At the same time, anthropogenic emissions of aerosols have increased sixfold since the 1930s, leading to a weakening of the southwesterly lower-level and easterly upper-level winds that define the monsoonal circulation over the Arabian Sea6,7,8,9. In principle, this aerosol-driven circulation modification could affect tropical cyclone intensity over the Arabian Sea, but so far no such linkage has been shown. Here we report an increase in the intensity of pre-monsoon Arabian Sea tropical cyclones during the period 1979–2010, and show that this change in storm strength is a consequence of a simultaneous upward trend in anthropogenic black carbon and sulphate emissions. We use a combination of observational, reanalysis and model data to demonstrate that the anomalous circulation, which is radiatively forced by these anthropogenic aerosols, reduces the basin-wide vertical wind shear, creating an environment more favourable for tropical cyclone intensification. Because most Arabian Sea tropical cyclones make landfall1, our results suggest an additional impact on human health from regional air pollution.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Access through your institution<br><br><br><br><br>Buy or subscribe<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution<br><br>Access options<br><br><br><br><br><br>Access through your institution<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Access through your institution<br><br><br><br><br>Change institution<br><br><br><br><br>Buy or subscribe<br><br><br><br>Subscribe to this journalReceive 51 print issues and online access185,98 € per yearonly 3,65 € per issueLearn moreBuy this articlePurchase on Springer LinkInstant access to full article PDFBuy nowPrices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout<br><br>Additional access options:<br><br><br>Log in<br><br><br>Learn about institutional subscriptions<br><br><br>Read our FAQs<br><br><br>Contact customer support<br><br><br><br><br>Figure 1: <br>                        Tropical cyclone tracks, aerosol optical depth and meridional SST trends in the Arabian Sea.<br>Figure 2: <br>                        Distributions of pre-monsoon and post-monsoon LMI and storm-ambient vertical wind shear.<br>Figure 3: <br>                        Thirty-year trends in pre-monsoon SST and vertical wind shear.<br><br><br><br>Similar content being viewed by others<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tropical modulation of East Asia air pollution<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>23 September 2022<br><br><br>Myung-Il Jung, Seok-Woo Son, … Deliang Chen<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Intensification of Arabian Sea cyclone genesis potential and its association with Warm Arctic Cold Eurasia pattern<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>19 September 2023<br><br><br>P. J. Vidya, Sourav Chatterjee, … R. Murtugudde<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Increasing tropical cyclone intensity in the western North Pacific partly driven by warming Tibetan Plateau<br>                                        <br><br><br>Article<br>Open access<br>05 January 2024<br><br><br>Jing Xu, Ping Zhao, … Lu Liu<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReferencesEvan, A. T. & Camargo, S. J. A climatology of Arabian Sea cyclonic storms. J. Clim. 24, 140–158 (2011)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Gray, W. M. Global view of the origin of tropical disturbances and storms. Mon. Weath. Rev. 96, 669–700 (1968)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Krishna, K. M. Intensifying tropical cyclones over the North Indian Ocean during summer monsoon—global warming. Global Planet. Change 65, 1–2,–12–16 (2009)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Rao, V. B., Ferreira, C. C., Franchito, S. H. & Ramakrishna, S. S. V. S. In a changing climate weakening tropical easterly jet induces more violent tropical storms over the north Indian Ocean. Geophys. Res. Lett. 35, L15710 (2008)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Singh, O. P., Kahn, A. & Rahman, S. Has the frequency of intense tropical cyclones increased in the North Indian Ocean? Curr. Sci. 80, 575–580 (2001)<br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Dash, S. K., Kulkarni, M. A., Mohanty, U. C. & Prasad, K. Changes in the characteristics of rain events in India. J. Geophys. Res. 114, D10109 (2009)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar <br>                Chung, C. E. & Ramanathan, V. Weakening of North Indian SST gradients and the monsoon rainfall in India and the Sahel. J. Clim. 19, 2036–2045 (2006)Article <br>    ADS <br>    <br>                    Google Scholar
