# Query `52`

## Original Question

*Tetens coefficients appear in a few meteorological/climatological models that I've been looking at,for example APSIM:

svp_A = 6.106
svp_B = 17.27
svp_C = 237.3
These same values appear in at least two other models, but I can't find any documentation about what they represent, or where they come from. What are these numbers?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0011
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) salt_pits/red_pits3_296.txt
> old overflow-hidden group-hover:underline" title="Hello miners, I've come to make an announcement, I've enjoyed my time down in the caves with you all, and I've finally reached level 100, It's been an amazing time with this community, and to that, I pay for the beers tonight. Rock and Stone." aria-label="List item post - Hello miners, I've come to make an announcement, I've enjoy..."<br>            Hello miners, I've come to make an announcement, I've

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) salt_pits/red_pits1_1637.txt
> , which I soon found out was useless from the voiceline and no materials being picked up.<br>  </p<p<br>    I can't say I've  ever had that issue..Could you or your friend maybe be a bit colorblind by chance? Or maybe eventually have a colorblind mode if people can't differentiate the colors well enough to where it hinders you?<br>  </p<br>  </div<br>      </div

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) VARIANT_IDs_in_CMIP6/google_cmip63.txt
> grid_label = "gr[i]"  (a “secondary” grid), where <i should be replaced by a positive  integer less than 10, which distinguishes this output from other  regridded output.  <br><br>Note that:<br>If model output is reported on a native grid, then if regridded output is also reported, it must not be labeled “gr”, but instead should be of the form gr[i] (e.g,, gr1, gr2, ….).  <br>The grid label provides no information about the grid other than to indicate whether or not the data have been regridded (from the native grid) and whether or not the grid is considered to be a “primary” grid by the data provider. <br>Output for different variables may be reported on different grids, so “gn” and “gr” may not uniquely define a grid even within a single model.<br>If a variable is reported on more than one grid,  one of these grids must be labeled “gn” or “gr” (as appropriate), and others must be labeled as secondary grids (“gr1”, “gr2”, etc.).  <br>The grid labels (“gr1”, “gr2”, etc.)  must be defined consistently for all variables reported from a single model on the same secondary grid.  Thus,  if “gr3” indicates output on a 2x2 degree grid for one variable, then the same label should be used for other variables output on this grid (unless for another variable output is considered to be primary, in which case the output would be labeled “gn” or “gr”, as appropriate).<br>Output on the same grid but from different models will usually not be labeled with the same grid_label, since data providers independently assign the labels.<br>A “nominal_resolution” attribute must be defined as specified in Appendix 2, and a brief description of the grid should be recorded in the “grid” global attribute (see note 10).<br>For zonal mean output, a “z” should be appended to the grid label that would apply before performing the zonal mean (e.g., "gnz", "grz", "gr2z").  The "gnz" label would likely only be appropriate when zonally-averaging data on a native cartesian latxlon grid.<br>For “site” data the label "gn" should be used presuming data are obtained from the single native grid cell located nearest each site.   <br>For “transport through a straight” (and the like), the grid label should reflect the grid relied on in calculating the transport (presumably the native grid would be best for this purpose, so “gn”).<br>For output reported only over the region centered on Greenland, “g” should be appended to the grid_label (e.g., “gng”, “grg”,  “gr1g”).  Similarly for output reported only over the region centered on Antarctica, “a” should be appended to the grid_label.<br>The “license” attribute should record the following statement (with segments in square brackets optional, and with required, appropriate text entered in place of < ):  “CMIP6 model data produced by <Your Centre Name is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-[]ShareAlike 4.0 International License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/). Consult https://pcmdi.llnl.gov/CMIP6/TermsOfUse for terms of use governing CMIP6 output, including citation requirements and proper acknowledgment.    Further information about this data, including some limitations, can be found via the further_info_url (recorded as a global attribute in this file)[ and at <some URL maintained by modeling group].  The data producers and data providers make no warranty, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. All liabilities arising from the supply of the information (including any liability arising in negligence) are excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.”<br>The [] indicates that institutions may choose to use the Non-commercial version of this license by inserting the words “NonCommercial-” at this point, but this will significantly limit the use of the data in downstream climate mitigation and adaptation applications.  Please do not simply copy the statement above when writing data; Some text must be entered, some text is optional and the symbols “[]” should not appear in the licensing text.<br>The “source” is used to fully identify the model and version.  The first portion of the “source” attribute is used in constructing “source_id”.  [The “source_id”, which must not exceed 16 characters in length,  is the same as the “modified source_id” (which appears as  the first part of “source”-- see below)  but with forbidden characters removed or replaced by a hyphen (“-”).  All characters are forbidden in source_id except a-z, A-Z, 0-9 and the hyphen (“-”).]  Additionally, the “source” attribute must include the year (i.e., model vintage) when this model version was first used in a scientific application.  It should also include information concerning the component models.  The following template should be followed in constructing “source”: <br>	<br><modified source_id (<year): atmos: <model_name (<technical_name, <resolution_and_levels); ocean: <model_name (<technical_name, <native_resolution_and_levels); seaIce: <model_name (<technical_name); land: <model_name (<technical_name); aerosol: <model_name (<technical_name); atmosChem: <model_name (<technical_name); ocnBgchem: <model_name (<technical_name); landIce: <model_name (<technical_name)<br><br>For some models, it may not make sense to include all these components, and none of the text following “<year” is absolutely mandatory. As an example, "source" might contain the string: <br>CCSM2 (2002): atmos: CAM2 (cam2_0_brnchT_itea_2, T42L26); ocean: POP (pop2_0_ver_1.4.3, 3x2L15); seaIce: CSIM4; land: CLM2.0<br><br>The source and source_id should not change even when some of the component models are inactive in some of the CMIP experiments.  For example, if an AOGCM is named “SomeAOGCM 1.0 (2016): atmosphere: SomeAGCM; ocean: SomeOGCM; sea ice: SomeSeaIce”, then source_id would be “SomeAOGCM-1-0” and this same name would be used whether or not the model were run in coupled mode or AMIP mode (with prescribed SST and sea ice). <br>The source_type will depend on which experiment is being performed.  Options in the CV include: <br>AGCM (atmospheric general circulation model, including a land model), <br>OGCM (ocean general circulation model, including a sea-ice model), <br>AOGCM (atmosphere-ocean global climate model), <br>LAND (land model but only if run “offline”), <br>ISM (ice-sheet model, which may be run “offline” or coupled to an AOGCM), <br>RAD (radiation code but only if run “offline”), <br>BGC (for a model component that includes a biogeochemical treatment which  at the very least can account for carbon reservoirs and fluxes in the atmosphere, terrestrial biosphere, and ocean; for some model configurations, only part of the BGC component will be active.  For example, in a BGC model coupled to an AGCM, the ocean component of the BGC might be inactive, but the source_type would be “AGCM BGC”.   For a BGC model run coupled to an AOGCM, the source_type should include “AOGCM BGC”  both when atmospheric concentrations are calculated and when they are  prescribed),<br>CHEM (appears with either AOGCM or AGCM in models that calculate, rather than rely on prescribed concentrations of atmospheric oxidants including at least ozone), <br>AER (appears with AOGCM or AGCM in models that calculate tropospheric aerosols driven by emission fluxes, rather than relying on prescribed concentrations),<br>SLAB (a slab-ocean model).  <br><br>All types that apply to the model (i.e., are active in a given experiment) should appear in a list with each type separated by a single space.  <br><br>Sometimes source_type for CMIP6 simulations will be described by a single label, as in “AOGCM” or “AGCM” or “OGCM”, but when additional interactive components are included, then multiple labels should be found in source_type (e..g., “AOGCM BGC”, “AGCM CHEM AER”, “AOGCM AER”, “AOGCM ISM”, “AGCM SLAB”, “OGCM BGC”).  Single labels will be used for “offline” models such as “ISM” and “RAD”. <br><br>For each of the CMIP6 experiments, the list of components that are required and the ones that are allowed but optional can be found in http://rawgit.com/WCRP-CMIP/CMIP6_CVs/master/src/CMIP6_experiment_id.html (or, alternatively, here). The following combinations for source_type can be found there:<br>AGCM  [BGC]  [AER]  [CHEM] [SLAB]<br>AOGCM  [BGC]  [AER]  [CHEM] [ISM]<br>OGCM<br>LAND<br>ISM<br>RAD<br>where the text in brackets sometimes must appear, other times, may appear, and in still other cases should not appear, depending on the experiment.  The ordering of the components is arbitrary in source_type, and all brackets should be removed (see examples in earlier paragraph above).<br>tracking_id should be of the form “hdl:21.14100/<uuid”  (e.g., “hdl:21.14100/02d9e6d5-9467-382e-8f9b-9300a64ac3cd”).  The tracking_id should be unique for each file published in ESGF.  The <uuid should be generated using the OSSP utility which supports a number of different DCE 1.1 variant UUID options.  For CMIP6, version 4 (random number based) is required.  Download the software from http://www.ossp.org/pkg/lib/uuid/.<br>It is recommended that variant_info include information identifying major distinguishing features of a variant, but care should be taken to record correct information.  Prudence dictates that this attribute include a warning along the following lines:  “Information provided by this attribute may in some cases be flawed.  Users can find more comprehensive and up-to-date documentation via the further_info_url global attribute.”<br>The information stored in the “forcing” attribute in CMIP5 may in CMIP6 appear in the variant_info attribute.<br>Data Reference Syntax (DRS) components:<br><br>The DRS identifies experiments, simulations, ensembles of experiments, and atomic datasets.  Some of the DRS components are used, for example, to construct  file names, directory structures, the further_info_url, and in facets of some search tools.  The following components are needed for CMIP6 (along with their CMIP5 counterparts):<br><br>activity_id      		(CMIP5: "activity")			see CMIP6_activity_id.json<br>institution_id    	(CMIP5: "institute")			see CMIP6_institution_id.json<br>source_id      		(CMIP5: "model")			see CMIP6_source_id.json<br>experiment_id   	(CMIP5: "experiment")			see CMIP6_experiment_id.json<br>variable_id    		(CMIP5: "variable name")		see data request<br>table_id        		(CMIP5: "table_id")			see CMIP6_table_id.json<br>variant_label  		(CMIP5: "ensemble member")		construct from realization, initialization, physics, and forcing indices<br>version         		(CMIP5: "version number")		indicating approximate date of model output file. (This is the only DRS element<br>									that is not stored as a global attribute.)<br><br>We need additional components in CMIP6 to accommodate the more complex structure:<br><br>sub_experiment_id 	(set to "none" for most experiments)						see CMIP6_sub_experiment_id.json<br>grid_label           	(needed to distinguish the same field stored on more than one grid)		see CMIP6_grid_label.json<br>mip_era              		(needed to distinguish CMIP5 experiments and datasets from CMIP6.) 	set to “CMIP6”<br>member_id		a compound construction from sub_experiment_id and variant_label		see below for further information<br><br>As in CMIP5, we also define additional DRS elements because they can be helpful in providing data discovery services:<br><br>frequency		(CMIP5: "frequency")			see CMIP6_frequency.json<br>realm      		(CMIP5: "modeling realm")		see CMIP6_realm.json<br>product         		(CMIP5: "product")			set to “model-output” in CMIP6<br>nominal_resolution						see CMIP6_nominal_resolution.json and Appendix 2<br>source_type							see CMIP6_source_type.json<br><br>The DRS elements marked with an asterisk () are associated with global attributes that may be space-separated lists of values.  Only the first item in a list is recognized by the DRS, but in faceted searches all listed items will be recognized. <br><br><br>File name template:<br><br>Before constructing file names and directory structures, it is useful to define a member_id, which can be used to distinguish among different simulations belonging to a root experiment.  The member_id is constructed from the sub_experiment_id and variant_label  using the following algorithm:<br><br>	if sub_experiment_id = “none”<br>		member_id = <variant_label<br>	else<br>		member_id = <sub_experiment_id-<variant_label<br>	endif<br><br>With this segment defined, the file name can be constructed consistent with the following template:<br><br>file name = <variable_id_<table_id_<source_id_<experiment_id _<member_id_<grid_label[_<time_range].nc<br><br>For time-invariant fields, the last segment (time_range) above is omitted.<br><br>	Example when there is no sub-experiment: tas_Amon_GFDL-CM4_historical_r1i1p1f1_gn_196001-199912.nc<br>	Example with a sub-experiment:   pr_day_CNRM-CM6-1_dcppA-hindcast_s1960-r2i1p1f1_gn_198001-198412.nc<br><br>All strings appearing in the file name are constructed using only the following characters:  a-z, A-Z, 0-9, and the hyphen ("-"), except the hyphen must not appear in variable_id.  Underscores are prohibited throughout except as shown in the template.<br><br>Note that the last segment of the file name indicates the time-range spanned by the data in the file, and is omitted when inappropriate (e.g., if a variable is “fixed” for all time).  The format for this segment is as in CMIP5 (see http://cmip-pcmdi.llnl.gov/cmip5/docs/cmip5_data_reference_syntax.pdf):<br><br>The <time_range is a string generated consistent with the following:<br>If frequency = “fx” then<br>              	<time_range=””<br>else<br><time_range = N1-N2 where N1 and N2 are integers of the form ‘yyyy[MM[dd[hh[mm[ss]]]]][<suffix]’ (expressed as a string, where where ‘yyyy’, ‘MM’, ‘dd’, ‘hh’ ‘mm’ and ‘ss’ are integer year, month, day, hour, minute, and second, respectively)<br>endif<br> <br>where <suffix is defined as follows:<br>if the variable identified by variable_id has a time dimension with a “climatology” attribute then<br>suffix = “-clim”<br>else<br>suffix = “”<br>endif<br> <br>and where the precision of the time_range strings is determined by the “frequency” global attribute as specified in Table 2.<br> <br><br><br>Table 2: Precision of time labels used in file names.<br>Frequency<br>Precision of time label<br>Notes<br>yr, dec, yrPt<br>“yyyy”<br>Label with the years recorded in the  first and last coordinate values.<br>mon, monC<br>“yyyyMM”<br>For “mon”, label with the months recorded in the  first and last coordinate values; for “monC” label with the first and last months contributing to the climatology.<br>day<br>“yyyyMMdd”<br>Label with the days recorded in the  first and last coordinate values.<br>6hr, 3hr, 1hr, 1hrCM, 6hrPt, 3hrPt, 1hrPt<br>“yyyyMMddhhmm”<br>Label 1hrCM files with the beginning of the first hour and the end of the last hour contributing to climatology (rounded to the nearest minute); for other frequencies in this category, label with the first and last time-coordinate values (rounded to the nearest minute).<br>subhrPt<br>“yyyyMMddhhmmss”<br>Label with the first and last time-coordinate values (rounded to the nearest second)<br>fx<br>Omit time label<br>This frequency applies to variables that are independent of time (“fixed”).<br><br> <br><br><br><br>Directory structure template:<br><br>Directory structure = <mip_era/<br><activity_id/<br>		<institution_id/<br>			<source_id/<br><experiment_id/<br><member_id/<br><table_id/<br><variable_id/<br><grid_label/<br><version<br><br>Note:<br><br><version has the form “vYYYYMMDD” (e.g., “v20160314”), indicating a representative date for the version.   Note that files contained in a single <version  subdirectory at the end of the directory path should represent all the available time-samples reported from the simulation; a time-series can be split across several files, but all the files must be found in the same subdirectory.  This implies that <version will not generally be the actual date that all files in the subdirectory were written or published.<br>If multiple activities are listed in the global attribute, the first one is used in the directory structure.  <br><br>Example when there is no sub-experiment:   CMIP6/CMIP/NOAA-GFDL/GFDL-CM4/1pctCO2/r1i1p1f1/Amon/tas/gn/v20150322<br>Example with a sub-experiment:     CMIP6/DCPP/CNRM-CERFACS/CNRM-CM6-1/dcppA-hindcast/s1960-r2i1p1f3/day/pr/gn/v20160215<br><br>The above directory structure is not the same as CMIP5’s directory structure.<br><br>Table 3: Quality assurance checks.  [Note that “CMIP6 data request” refers to information recorded in the “dreq” xml files.]  <br><br>CMIP6 global attribute <br>CMOR source of global attribute<br>Required attribute?<br>Check that type is<br>Require check against template or CV<br>Check also in file name?<br>activity_id<br>CMIP6_experiment_id.json<br>yes<br>string<br>CV (consistent with experiment_id)<br>no<br>branch_method<br>user input<br>conditionally<br>string<br>no<br>no<br>branch_time_in_child<br>user input<br>conditionally<br>double precision <br>no<br>no<br>branch_time_in_parent<br>user input<br>conditionally<br>double precision <br>no<br>no<br>comment<br>user input<br>no<br>string<br>no<br>no<br>contact<br>user input<br>no<br>string<br>no<br>no<br>Conventions<br>Table 1<br>yes<br>string<br>CV

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/how_far_above_sea_level_can_you_get_on_the_equator2.txt
> Users<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>How far above sea level can you get on the equator?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>4 years, 9 months ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>4 years, 9 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        328 times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            4<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Quite simply what is the highest point above sea level that is right on the equator, I figured it would be a mountain in the Ecuadorian Andes but the Kenyan highlands look to be a likely candidate as well. I've tried to find it but I simply can't find a map that has the equator and the altitude in a highly accurate format and resolution anywhere.<br><br><br><br><br>geography<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Jul 7, 2019 at 12:12<br><br><br><br><br><br>Ash<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Jun 30, 2019 at 19:40<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AshAsh<br><br>4,2601313 silver badges2424 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I assume you mean on exactly the 0° latitude line. Otherwise it would be Chimborazo which is 1° 28' N.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Spencer<br><br>Jul 1, 2019 at 2:16<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>If you want to put in the work,  you can download and view a free DEM at gisgeography.com/free-global-dem-data-sources<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Spencer<br><br>Jul 1, 2019 at 2:23<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> |

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) salt_pits/red_pits3_274.txt
> ;subreddit_id&quot;:&quot;t5_3iufz&quot;,&quot;subreddit_name&quot;:&quot;deeprockgalactic&quot;,&quot;title&quot;:&quot;Hello miners, I've come to make an announcement, I've enjoyed my time down in the caves with you all, and I've finally reached level 100, It's been an amazing time with this community, and to that, I pay for the beers tonight. Rock


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, teten/Clausius_E2_80_93Clapeyron_relation5.txt
> e<br><br>s<br><br><br>(<br>T<br>)<br>=<br>6.1094<br>exp<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br><br><br>17.625<br>T<br><br><br>T<br>+<br>243.04<br><br><br><br>)<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle e_{s}(T)=6.1094\exp \left({\frac {17.625T}{T+243.04}}\right),}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br><br>e<br><br>s<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle e_{s}}<br><br> is in hPa, and <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> is in degrees Celsius (whereas everywhere else on this page, <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> is an absolute temperature, e.g. in kelvins).<br>This is also sometimes called the Magnus or Magnus–Tetens approximation, though this attribution is historically inaccurate.[16] But see also the discussion of the accuracy of different approximating formulae for saturation vapour pressure of water.<br>Under typical atmospheric conditions, the denominator of the exponent depends weakly on <br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br> (for which the unit is degree Celsius). Therefore, the August–Roche–Magnus equation implies that saturation water vapor pressure changes approximately exponentially with temperature under typical atmospheric conditions, and hence the water-holding capacity of the atmosphere increases by about 7% for every 1 °C rise in temperature.[17]<br><br>Example[edit]<br>One of the uses of this equation is to determine if a phase transition will occur in a given situation.  Consider the question of how much pressure is needed to melt ice at a temperature <br><br><br><br><br>Δ<br>T<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\Delta T}}<br><br> below 0 °C. Note that water is unusual in that its change in volume upon melting is negative. We can assume<br><br><br><br><br>Δ<br>P<br>=<br><br><br>L<br><br>T<br><br>Δ<br>v<br><br><br><br><br>Δ<br>T<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta P={\frac {L}{T\,\Delta v}}\,\Delta T,}<br><br><br>and substituting in<br><br><br><br><br><br>L<br>=<br>3.34<br>×<br><br>10<br><br>5<br><br><br> <br><br>J<br><br>/<br><br>k<br>g<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle L=3.34\times 10^{5}~\mathrm {J/kg} }<br><br> (latent heat of fusion for water),<br><br><br><br>T<br>=<br>273<br><br><br>K<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle T=273\,\mathrm {K} }<br><br> (absolute temperature in kelvins),<br><br><br><br>Δ<br>v<br>=<br>−<br>9.05<br>×<br><br>10<br><br>−<br>5<br><br><br> <br><br><br>m<br><br>3<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>k<br>g<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Delta v=-9.05\times 10^{-5}~\mathrm {m^{3}/kg} }<br><br> (change in specific volume from solid to liquid),<br>we obtain<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Δ<br>P<br><br><br>Δ<br>T<br><br><br><br>=<br>−<br>13.5<br> <br><br>MPa<br><br><br>/<br><br><br>K<br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {\Delta P}{\Delta T}}=-13.5~{\text{MPa}}/{\text{K}}.}<br><br><br>To provide a rough example of how much pressure this is, to melt ice at −7 °C (the temperature many ice skating rinks are set at) would require balancing a small car (mass ~ 1000 kg[18]) on a thimble (area ~ 1 cm2). This shows that ice skating cannot be simply explained by pressure-caused melting point depression, and in fact the mechanism is quite complex.[19]<br><br>Second derivative[edit]<br>While the Clausius–Clapeyron relation gives the slope of the coexistence curve, it does not provide any information about its curvature or second derivative. The second derivative of the coexistence curve of phases 1 and 2 is given by[20]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>P<br><br><br><br>d<br><br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>1<br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br>2<br><br><br>−<br><br>c<br><br>p<br>1<br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>−<br>2<br>(<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>α<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>1<br><br><br><br>α<br><br>1<br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>+<br><br><br>1<br><br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br>(<br><br>v<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>κ<br><br>T<br>2<br><br><br>−<br><br>v<br><br>1<br><br><br><br>κ<br><br>T<br>1<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>]<br><br>,<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\frac {\mathrm {d} ^{2}P}{\mathrm {d} T^{2}}}&={\frac {1}{v_{2}-v_{1}}}\left[{\frac {c_{p2}-c_{p1}}{T}}-2(v_{2}\alpha _{2}-v_{1}\alpha _{1}){\frac {\mathrm {d} P}{\mathrm {d} T}}\right]\\{}&+{\frac {1}{v_{2}-v_{1}}}\left[(v_{2}\kappa _{T2}-v_{1}\kappa _{T1})\left({\frac {\mathrm {d} P}{\mathrm {d} T}}\right)^{2}\right],\end{aligned}}}<br><br><br>where subscripts 1 and 2 denote the different phases, <br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{p}}<br><br> is the specific heat capacity at constant pressure, <br><br><br><br>α<br>=<br>(<br>1<br><br>/<br><br>v<br>)<br>(<br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>/<br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br><br>)<br><br>P<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \alpha =(1/v)(\mathrm {d} v/\mathrm {d} T)_{P}}<br><br> is the thermal expansion coefficient, and <br><br><br><br><br>κ<br><br>T<br><br><br>=<br>−<br>(<br>1<br><br>/<br><br>v<br>)<br>(<br><br>d<br><br>v<br><br>/<br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br><br>)<br><br>T<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \kappa _{T}=-(1/v)(\mathrm {d} v/\mathrm {d} P)_{T}}<br><br> is the isothermal compressibility.<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Van 't Hoff equation<br>Antoine equation<br>Lee–Kesler method<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Clausius, R. (1850). "Ueber die bewegende Kraft der Wärme und die Gesetze, welche sich daraus für die Wärmelehre selbst ableiten lassen" [On the motive power of heat and the laws which can be deduced therefrom regarding the theory of heat]. Annalen der Physik (in German). 155 (4): 500–524. Bibcode:1850AnP...155..500C. doi:10.1002/andp.18501550403. hdl:2027/uc1.$b242250.<br><br>^ Clapeyron, M. C. (1834). "Mémoire sur la puissance motrice de la chaleur". Journal de l'École polytechnique [fr] (in French). 23: 153–190. ark:/12148/bpt6k4336791/f157.<br><br>^ Feynman, Richard (1963). "Illustrations of Thermodynamics". The Feynman Lectures on Physics. California Institute of Technology. Retrieved 13 December 2023. This relationship was deduced by Carnot, but it is called the Clausius-Clapeyron equation.<br><br>^ Thomson, William (1849). "An Account of Carnot's Theory of the Motive Power of Heat; with Numerical Results deduced from Regnault's Experiments on Steam". Transactions of the Edinburgh Royal Society. 16 (5): 541–574. doi:10.1017/S0080456800022481.<br><br>^ Pippard, Alfred B. (1981). Elements of classical thermodynamics: for advanced students of physics (Repr ed.). Cambridge: Univ. Pr. p. 116. ISBN 978-0-521-09101-5.<br><br>^ Koziol, Andrea; Perkins, Dexter. "Teaching Phase Equilibria". serc.carleton.edu. Carleton University. Retrieved 1 February 2023.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g h i Wark, Kenneth (1988) [1966]. "Generalized Thermodynamic Relationships". Thermodynamics (5th ed.). New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, Inc. ISBN 978-0-07-068286-3.<br><br>^ Clausius; Clapeyron. "The Clausius-Clapeyron Equation". Bodner Research Web. Purdue University. Retrieved 1 February 2023.<br><br>^ Carl Rod Nave (2006). "PvT Surface for a Substance which Contracts Upon Freezing". HyperPhysics. Georgia State University. Retrieved 2007-10-16.<br><br>^ a b Çengel, Yunus A.; Boles, Michael A. (1998) [1989]. Thermodynamics – An Engineering Approach. McGraw-Hill Series in Mechanical Engineering (3rd ed.). Boston, MA.: McGraw-Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-011927-7.<br><br>^ Salzman, William R. (2001-08-21). "Clapeyron and Clausius–Clapeyron Equations". Chemical Thermodynamics. University of Arizona. Archived from the original on 2007-06-07. Retrieved 2007-10-11.<br><br>^ Masterton, William L.; Hurley, Cecile N. (2008). Chemistry : principles and reactions (6th ed.). Cengage Learning. p. 230. ISBN 9780495126713. Retrieved 3 April 2020.<br><br>^ Clapeyron, E (1834). "Mémoire sur la puissance motrice de la chaleur". Journal de l ́École Polytechnique. XIV: 153–190.<br><br>^ Alduchov, Oleg; Eskridge, Robert (1997-11-01), Improved Magnus' Form Approximation of Saturation Vapor Pressure, NOAA, doi:10.2172/548871 Equation 25 provides these coefficients.<br><br>^ Alduchov, Oleg A.; Eskridge, Robert E. (1996). "Improved Magnus Form Approximation of Saturation Vapor Pressure". Journal of Applied Meteorology. 35 (4): 601–609. Bibcode:1996JApMe..35..601A. doi:10.1175/1520-0450(1996)035<0601:IMFAOS2.0.CO;2. Equation 21 provides these coefficients.<br><br>^ Lawrence, M. G. (2005). "The Relationship between Relative Humidity and the Dewpoint Temperature in Moist Air: A Simple Conversion and Applications" (PDF). Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. 86 (2): 225–233. Bibcode:2005BAMS...86..225L. doi:10.1175/BAMS-86-2-225.<br><br>^ IPCC, Climate Change 2007: Working Group I: The Physical Science Basis, "FAQ 3.2 How is Precipitation Changing?". Archived 2018-11-02 at the Wayback Machine.<br><br>^ Zorina, Yana (2000). "Mass of a Car". The Physics Factbook.<br><br>^ Liefferink, Rinse W.; Hsia, Feng-Chun; Weber, Bart; Bonn, Daniel (2021-02-08). "Friction on Ice: How Temperature, Pressure, and Speed Control the Slipperiness of Ice". Physical Review X. 11 (1): 011025. doi:10.1103/PhysRevX.11.011025.<br><br>^ Krafcik, Matthew; Sánchez Velasco, Eduardo (2014). "Beyond Clausius–Clapeyron: Determining the second derivative of a first-order phase transition line". American Journal of Physics. 82 (4): 301–305. Bibcode:2014AmJPh..82..301K. doi:10.1119/1.4858403.<br><br><br>Bibliography[edit]<br><br>Yau, M. K.; Rogers, R. R. (1989). Short Course in Cloud Physics (3rd ed.). Butterworth–Heinemann. ISBN 978-0-7506-3215-7.<br>Iribarne, J. V.; Godson, W. L. (2013). "4. Water-Air systems § 4.8 Clausius–Clapeyron Equation". Atmospheric Thermodynamics. Springer. pp. 60–. ISBN 978-94-010-2642-0.<br>Callen, H. B. (1985). Thermodynamics and an Introduction to Thermostatistics. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-471-86256-7.<br><br>Notes[edit]<br><br><br>^ In the original work, <br><br><br><br>1<br><br>/<br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 1/T}<br><br> was simply called the Carnot function and was not known in this form. Clausius determined the form 30 years later and added his name to the eponymous Clausius–Clapeyron relation.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Clausius–Clapeyron_relation&oldid=1214874575"<br>Categories: Thermodynamic equationsAtmospheric thermodynamicsEngineering thermodynamicsHidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de)CS1 French-language sources (fr)Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches Wikidata<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 21 March 2024, at 18:52 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width
