# Query `53`

## Original Question

*According to the Mariana Trench Oceanography page is at a maximum depth of

is 11,033 meters (36,201 feet)

The 'Challenger Deep' being the name of the deepest point.

I understand that it is a subduction trench, but my question is, what geological mechanism result in the great depth of the Mariana Trench over other trenches?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1250
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1934
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0625
map_cut_25: 0.0625
map_cut_50: 0.0625
map_cut_100: 0.0625
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Ocean1_39.txt
> aspian Sea.<br>The deepest region of the ocean is at the Mariana Trench, located in the Pacific Ocean near the Northern Mariana Islands. The maximum depth has been estimated to be 10,971 meters (35,994 ft). The British naval vessel Challenger II surveyed the trench in 1951 and named the deepest part of the trench the "Challenger Deep". In 1960, the Trieste successfully reached the bottom of the trench, manned by a crew of two men.<br>Oceanographers classify the ocean into vertical and horizontal zones based on physical and biological conditions. The pelagic zone

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) deepest_into_earth/deepest_into_sea2_0.txt
> <div class="pt-3"</div<br>			  <pThe average depth of the ocean is about 3,682 meters (12,080 feet). The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep and is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench, which runs several hundred kilometers southwest of the U.S. territorial island of Guam. Challenger Deep is <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsr.2021.103644"approximately 10,935

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Ocean5_17.txt
> ,100 ft). Nearly half of the world's marine waters are over 3,000 meters (9,800 ft) deep. "Deep ocean," which is anything below 200 meters (660 ft), covers about 66% of Earth's surface. This figure does not include seas not connected to the World Ocean, such as the Caspian Sea.<br>The deepest region of the ocean is at the Mariana Trench, located in the Pacific Ocean near the Northern Mariana Islands. The maximum depth has been estimated to be 10,971 meters (35,994 ft).

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) mariana_trench/Oceanic_trench3_10.txt
> ft).[42] Older measurements may be off by hundreds of meters.<br><br><br><br>Trench<br><br>Ocean<br><br>Lowest Point<br><br>Maximum Depth<br><br>Source<br><br><br>Mariana Trench<br><br>Pacific Ocean<br><br>Challenger Deep<br><br>10,920 m (35,830 ft)<br><br>[42]<br><br><br>Tonga Trench<br><br>Pacific Ocean<br><br>Horizon Deep<br><br>10,820 m (35,500 ft)<br><br>[42]<br><br><br>Philippine Trench<br><br>Pacific Ocean<br><br>Emden Deep

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Sea1_76.txt
> self-powered submersible, Trieste developed by Jacques Piccard, took Piccard and Don Walsh to the deepest part of the Earth's oceans, the Mariana Trench in the Pacific, reaching a record depth of about 10,915 metres (35,810 ft), a feat not repeated until 2012 when James Cameron piloted the Deepsea Challenger to similar depths. An atmospheric diving suit can be worn for deep sea operations, with a new world record being set in 2006 when a US Navy diver descended to 2,000 feet (610 m) in one of these articulated, press


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, mariana_trench/Oceanic_trench1.txt
> Oceanic trench - Wikipedia<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Jump to content<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Main menu<br><br><br><br><br><br>Main menu<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Navigation<br>	<br><br><br>Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Contribute<br>	<br><br><br>HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Search<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Create account<br><br>Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Personal tools<br><br><br><br><br><br> Create account Log in<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Pages for logged out editors learn more<br><br><br><br>ContributionsTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Contents<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br><br>(Top)<br><br><br><br><br><br>1Geographic distribution<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2History of the term "trench"<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3Morphology<br><br><br><br>Toggle Morphology subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>3.1Sedimentation<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.2Erosive versus accretionary margins<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.3Earthquakes<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4Trench rollback<br><br><br><br>Toggle Trench rollback subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1Processes involved

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 7, mariana_trench/Oceanic_trench2.txt
> 4.2Mantle interactions<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5Hydrothermal activity and associated biomes<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>6Deepest oceanic trenches<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7Notable oceanic trenches<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>8Ancient oceanic trenches<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>9See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>10References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>11Bibliography<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>12External links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Oceanic trench<br><br><br><br>59 languages<br><br><br><br><br>AfrikaansالعربيةAsturianuবাংলাБеларускаяБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoJawaქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliKreyòl ayisyenКыргызчаLietuviųLa .lojban.MagyarМакедонскиमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanPolskiPortuguêsРусскийShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSundaSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt粵語中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Long and narrow depressions of the sea floor<br>Oceanic crust is formed at an oceanic ridge, while the lithosphere is subducted back into the asthenosphere at trenches<br>Oceanic trenches are prominent, long, narrow topographic depressions of the ocean floor. They are typically 50 to 100 kilometers (30 to 60 mi) wide and 3 to 4 km (1.9 to 2.5 mi) below the level of the surrounding oceanic floor, but can be thousands of kilometers in length. There are about 50,000 km (31,000 mi) of oceanic trenches worldwide, mostly around the Pacific Ocean, but also in the eastern Indian Ocean and a few other locations. The greatest ocean depth measured is in the Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench, at a depth of 10,920 m (35,830 ft) below sea level.<br>Oceanic trenches are a feature of the Earth's distinctive plate tectonics. They mark the locations of convergent plate boundaries, along which lithospheric plates move towards each other at rates that vary from a few millimeters to over ten centimeters per year. Oceanic lithosphere moves into trenches at a global rate of about 3 km2 (1.2 sq mi) per year.[1] A trench marks the position at which the flexed, subducting slab begins to descend beneath another lithospheric slab. Trenches are generally parallel to and about 200 km (120 mi) from a volcanic arc.<br>Much of the fluid trapped in sediments of the subducting slab returns to the surface at the oceanic trench, producing mud volcanoes and cold seeps. These support unique biomes based on chemotrophic microorganisms. There is concern that plastic debris is accumulating in trenches and threatening these communities.<br><br><br>Geographic distribution[edit]<br>Major Pacific trenches (1–10) and fracture zones (11–20):  1. Kermadec 2. Tonga 3. Bougainville 4. Mariana 5. Izu–Ogasawara 6. Japan 7. Kuril–Kamchatka 8. Aleutian 9. Middle America 10. Peru–Chile 11. Mendocino 12. Murray 13. Molokai 14. Clarion 15. Clipperton 16. Challenger 17. Eltanin 18. Udintsev 19. East Pacific Rise (S-shaped) 20. Nazca Ridge<br>There are approximately 50,000 km (31,000 mi) of convergent plate margins worldwide. These are mostly located around the Pacific Ocean, but are also found in the eastern Indian Ocean, with a few shorter convergent margin segments in other parts of the Indian Ocean, in the Atlantic Ocean, and in the Mediterranean.[2] They are found on the oceanward side of island arcs and Andean-type orogens.[3] Globally, there are over 50 major ocean trenches covering an area of 1.9 million km2 or about 0.5% of the oceans.[4]<br>Trenches are geomorphologically distinct from troughs. Troughs are elongated depressions of the sea floor with steep sides and flat bottoms, while trenches are characterized by a V-shaped profile.[4] Trenches that are partially infilled are sometimes described as troughs, for example the Makran Trough.[5] Some trenches are completely buried and lack bathymetric expression as in the Cascadia subduction zone,[6] which is completely filled with sediments.[7] Despite their appearance, in these instances the fundamental plate-tectonic structure is still an oceanic trench. Some troughs look similar to oceanic trenches but possess other tectonic structures. One example is the Lesser Antilles Trough, which is the forearc basin of the Lesser Antilles subduction zone.[8] Also not a trench is the New Caledonia trough, which is an extensional sedimentary basin related to the Tonga-Kermadec subduction zone.[9] Additionally, the Cayman Trough, which is a pull-apart basin within a transform fault zone,[10] is not an oceanic trench.<br>Trenches, along with volcanic arcs and Wadati-Benioff zones (zones of earthquakes under a volcanic arc) are diagnostic of convergent plate boundaries and their deeper manifestations, subduction zones.[2][3][11] Here, two tectonic plates are drifting into each other at a rate of a few millimeters to over 10 centimeters (4 in) per year. At least one of the plates is oceanic lithosphere, which plunges under the other plate to be recycled in the Earth's mantle. <br>Trenches are related to, but distinct from, continental collision zones, such as the Himalayas. Unlike in trenches, in continental collision zones continental crust enters a subduction zone. When buoyant continental crust enters a trench, subduction comes to a halt and the area becomes a zone of continental collision. Features analogous to trenches are associated with collision zones. One such feature is the peripheral foreland basin, a sediment-filled foredeep. Examples of peripheral foreland basins include the floodplains of the Ganges River and the Tigris-Euphrates river system.[2]<br><br>History of the term "trench"[edit]<br>Trenches were not clearly defined until the late 1940s and 1950s. The bathymetry of the ocean was poorly known prior to the Challenger expedition of 1872–1876,[12] which took 492 soundings of the deep ocean.[13] At station #225, the expedition discovered Challenger Deep,[14] now known to be the southern end of the Mariana Trench. The laying of transatlantic telegraph cables on the seafloor between the continents during the late 19th and early 20th centuries provided further motivation for improved bathymetry.[15] The term trench, in its modern sense of a prominent elongated depression of the sea bottom, was first used by Johnstone in his 1923 textbook An Introduction to Oceanography.[16][2]<br>During the 1920s and 1930s, Felix Andries Vening Meinesz measured gravity over trenches using a newly developed gravimeter that could measure gravity from aboard a submarine.[11] He proposed the tectogene hypothesis to explain the belts of negative gravity anomalies that were found near island arcs. According to this hypothesis, the belts were zones of downwelling of light crustal rock arising from subcrustal convection currents. The tectogene hypothesis was further developed by Griggs in 1939, using an analogue model based on a pair of rotating drums. Harry Hammond Hess substantially revised the theory based on his geological analysis.[17]<br>World War II in the Pacific led to great improvements of bathymetry, particularly in the western Pacific. In light of these new measurements, the linear nature of the deeps became clear. There was a rapid growth of deep sea research efforts, especially the widespread use of echosounders in the 1950s and 1960s. These efforts confirmed the morphological utility of the term "trench." Important trenches were identified, sampled, and mapped via sonar. <br>The early phase of trench exploration reached its peak with the 1960 descent of the Bathyscaphe Trieste to the bottom of the Challenger Deep. Following Robert S. Dietz' and Harry Hess' promulgation of the seafloor spreading hypothesis in the early 1960s and the plate tectonic revolution in the late 1960s, the oceanic trench became an important concept in plate tectonic theory.[11]<br><br>Morphology[edit]<br>Cross section of an oceanic trench formed along an oceanic-oceanic convergent boundary<br>The Peru–Chile Trench is located just left of the sharp line between the blue deep ocean (on the left) and the light blue continental shelf, along the west coast of South America. It runs along an oceanic-continental boundary, where the oceanic Nazca Plate subducts beneath the continental South American Plate<br>Oceanic trenches are 50 to 100 kilometers (30 to 60 mi) wide and have an asymmetric V-shape, with the steeper slope (8 to 20 degrees) on the inner (overriding) side of the trench and the gentler slope (around 5 degrees) on the outer (subducting) side of the trench.[18][19] The bottom of the trench marks the boundary between the subducting and overriding plates, known as the basal plate boundary shear[20] or the subduction décollement.[2] The depth of the trench depends on the starting depth of the oceanic lithosphere as it begins its plunge into the trench, the angle at which the slab plunges, and the amount of sedimentation in the trench. Both starting depth and subduction angle are greater for older oceanic lithosphere, which is reflected in the deep trenches of the western Pacific. Here the bottoms of the Marianas and the Tonga–Kermadec trenches are up to 10–11 kilometers (6.2–6.8 mi) below sea level. In the eastern Pacific, where the subducting oceanic lithosphere is much younger, the depth of the Peru-Chile trench is around 7 to 8 kilometers (4.3 to 5.0 mi).[18]<br>Though narrow, oceanic trenches are remarkably long and continuous, forming the largest linear depressions on earth. An individual trench can be thousands of kilometers long.[3] Most trenches are convex towards the subducting slab, which is attributed to the spherical geometry of the Earth.[21]<br>The trench asymmetry reflects the different physical mechanisms that determine the inner and outer slope angle. The outer slope angle of the trench is determined by the bending radius of the subducting slab, as determined by its elastic thickness. Since oceanic lithosphere thickens with age, the outer slope angle is ultimately determined by the age of the subducting slab.[22][20] The inner slope angle is determined by the angle of repose of the overriding plate edge.[20] This reflects frequent earthquakes along the trench that prevent oversteepening of the inner slope.[2]<br>As the subducting plate approaches the trench, it bends slightly upwards before beginning its plunge into the depths. As a result, the outer trench slope is bounded by an outer trench high. This is subtle, often only tens of meters high, and is typically located a few tens of kilometers from the trench axis. On the outer slope itself, where the plate begins to bend downwards into the trench, the upper part of the subducting slab is broken by bending faults that give the outer trench slope a horst and graben topography. The formation of these bending faults is suppressed where oceanic ridges or large seamounts are subducting into the trench, but the bending faults cut right across smaller seamounts. Where the subducting slab is only thinly veneered with sediments, the outer slope will often show seafloor spreading ridges oblique to the horst and graben ridges.[20]<br><br>Sedimentation[edit]<br>Trench morphology is strongly modified by the amount of sedimentation in the trench. This varies from practically no sedimentation, as in the Tonga-Kermadec trench, to completely filled with sediments, as with the Cascadia subduction zone. Sedimentation is largely controlled by whether the trench is near a continental sediment source.[21] The range of sedimentation is well illustrated by the Chilean trench. The north Chile portion of the trench, which lies along the Atacama Desert with its very slow rate of weathering, is sediment-starved, with from 20 to a few hundred meters of sediments on the trench floor. The tectonic morphology of this trench segment is fully exposed on the ocean bottom. The central Chile segment of the trench is moderately sedimented, with sediments onlapping onto pelagic sediments or ocean basement of the subducting slab, but the trench morphology is still clearly discernible. The southern Chile segment of the trench is fully sedimented, to the point where the outer rise and slope are no longer discernible. Other fully sedimented trenches include the Makran Trough, where sediments are up to 7.5 kilometers (4.7 mi) thick; the Cascadia subduction zone, which is completed buried by 3 to 4 kilometers (1.9 to 2.5 mi) of sediments; and the northernmost Sumatra subduction zone, which is buried under 6 kilometers (3.7 mi) of sediments.[23]<br>Sediments are sometimes transported along the axis of an oceanic trench. The central Chile trench experiences transport of sediments from source fans along an axial channel.[24] Similar transport of sediments has been documented in the Aleutian trench.[2]<br>In addition to sedimentation from rivers draining into a trench, sedimentation also takes place from landslides on the tectonically steepened inner slope, often driven by megathrust earthquakes. The Reloca Slide of the central Chile trench is an example of this process.[25]<br><br>Erosive versus accretionary margins[edit]<br>Convergent margins are classified as erosive or accretionary, and this has a strong influence on the morphology of the inner slope of the trench. Erosive margins, such as the northern Peru-Chile, Tonga-Kermadec, and Mariana trenches, correspond to sediment-starved trenches.[3] The subducting slab erodes material from the lower part of the overriding slab, reducing its volume. The edge of the slab experiences subsidence and steepening, with normal faulting. The slope is underlain by relative strong igneous and metamorphic rock, which maintains a high angle of repose.[26] Over half of all convergent margins are erosive margins.[2]<br>Accretionary margins, such as the southern Peru-Chile, Cascadia, and Aleutians, are associated with moderately to heavily sedimented trenches. As the slab subducts, sediments are "bulldozed" onto the edge of the overriding plate, producing an accretionary wedge or accretionary prism. This builds the overriding plate outwards. Because the sediments lack strength, their angle of repose is gentler than the rock making up the inner slope of erosive margin trenches. The inner slope is underlain by imbricated thrust sheets of sediments. The inner slope topography is roughened by localized mass wasting.[26] Cascadia has practically no bathymetric expression of the outer rise and trench, due to complete sediment filling, but the inner trench slope is complex, with many thrust ridges. These compete with canyon formation by rivers draining into the trench.  Inner trench slopes of erosive margins rarely show thrust ridges.[19]<br>Accretionary prisms grow in two ways. The first is by frontal accretion, in which sediments are scraped off the downgoing plate and emplaced at the front of the accretionary prism.[2] As the accretionary wedge grows, older sediments further from the trench become increasingly lithified, and faults and other structural features are steepened by rotation towards the trench.[27] The other mechanism for accretionary prism growth is underplating[2] (also known as basal accretion[28]) of subducted sediments, together with some oceanic crust, along the shallow parts of the subduction decollement. The Franciscan Group of California is interpreted as an ancient accretionary prism in which underplating is recorded as tectonic mélanges and duplex structures.[2]<br><br>Oceanic trench formed along an oceanic-oceanic convergent boundary<br>The Mariana trench contains the deepest part of the world's oceans, and runs along an oceanic-oceanic convergent boundary. It is the result of the oceanic Pacific plate subducting beneath the oceanic Mariana plate.<br>Earthquakes[edit]<br>Frequent megathrust earthquakes modify the inner slope of the trench by triggering massive landslides. These leave semicircular landslide scarps with slopes of up to 20 degrees on the headwalls and sidewalls.[29]<br>Subduction of seamounts and aseismic ridges into the trench may increase aseismic creep and reduce the severity of earthquakes. Contrariwise, subduction of large amounts of sediments may allow ruptures along the subduction décollement to propagate for great distances to produce megathrust earthquakes.[30]<br><br>Trench rollback[edit]<br>Trenches seem positionally stable over time, but scientists believe that some trenches—particularly those associated with subduction zones where two oceanic plates converge—move backward into the subducting plate.[31][32] This is called trench rollback or hinge retreat (also hinge rollback) and is one explanation for the existence of back-arc basins.<br>Forces perpendicular to the slab (the portion of the subducting plate within the mantle) are responsible for steepening of the slab and, ultimately, the movement of the hinge and trench at the surface.[33] These forces arise from the negative buoyancy of the slab with respect to the mantle[34] modified by the geometry of the slab itself.[35] The extension in the overriding plate, in response to the subsequent subhorizontal mantle flow from the displacement of the slab, can result in formation of a back-arc basin.[36]
