# Query `56`

## Original Question

*What causes the typical red, pink or orange colors seen in sun-rises and sun-sets?

How come the sky doesn't just turn a darker blue?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0588
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.4000
recall_50: 0.6000
recall_100: 0.6000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1553
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2195
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2195
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0292
map_cut_50: 0.0449
map_cut_100: 0.0449
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) 22_halo/Halo_(optical_phenomenon)4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Circular halo[edit]<br><br>Further information: 22° halo and 46° halo<br>Ice crystals (only four represented above) form the 22° halo, with red and blue light being refracted at slightly different angles<br>Among the best-known halos is the 22° halo, often just called "halo", which appears as a large ring around the Sun or Moon with a radius of about 22° (roughly the width of an outstretched hand at arm's length). The ice crystals that cause the 22° halo are oriented semi-randomly in the atmosphere, in contrast to the horizontal orientation required for some other halos such as sun dogs and light pillars. As a result of the optical properties of the ice crystals involved, no light is reflected towards the inside of the ring, leaving the sky noticeably darker than the sky around it, and giving it the impression of a "hole in the sky". The 22° halo is not to be confused with the corona, which is a different optical phenomenon caused by water droplets rather than ice crystals, and which has the appearance of a multicolored disk rather than a ring.<br>Other haloes can form at 46° to the Sun, or at the horizon, or around the zenith, and can appear as full haloes or incomplete arcs.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) below_treeline/trees_and_shrubs_for_mountain_areas_7_4232_12.txt
> ; attractive to birds. Orange-red fall color.<br><br><br>Caryopteris x<br>clandonensis<br>Blue Mist<br>Spiraea<br>to 8,500<br>FS<br>L – M<br>3-4′        x<br>4-5′<br>Rounded shrub with gray-green aromatic leaves that turn yellow in the Fall. Blue flowers in summer attract pollinators, followed by small light tan seed pods that persist through the winter. ‘Dark Knight’ is the most common cultivar. It has darker foliage and flowers. ‘Worcester Gold

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) hottest_antarctic/winter_in_antarctica_php4_9.txt
> Antarctic Winters are long and very cold <br>					with long dark nights that may last for weeks. The dark doesn't <br>					last as long as the summer light as there is twilight after <br>					the sun sets below the horizon and before it comes up again.<br>The further south you go, the colder, darker and <br>					longer the winter is. Antarctica is a large continent, <br>					so conditions vary quite a lot from the South Pole to the

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) plant_produce_oxygen/Atmosphere_of_Earth4_23.txt
> epic.gsfc.nasa.gov/. The images are taken from the Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) and show Earth as it rotates during a day.[60]<br><br><br><br><br>Earth's atmosphere seen from space. From the bottom, afterglow illuminates the troposphere in orange with silhouettes of clouds, and the stratosphere in white and blue. Next the mesosphere (pink) and the pink line of airglow of the lower thermosphere (dark), which hosts green and red aurorae over several hundred kilometers.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) aurora/Aurora3_17.txt
> blue. Other shades of red, as well as orange, may be seen on rare occasions; yellow-green is moderately common. As red, green, and blue are linearly independent colors, additive synthesis could, in theory, produce most human-perceived colors, but the ones mentioned in this article comprise a virtually exhaustive list.<br>Changes with time[edit]<br>Construction of a keogram from one night's recording by an all-sky camera, 6/7 September 2021. Keograms are commonly used to visualize changes in aurorae over time.<br>Auroras change with time


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, sunset_color/Rayleigh_scattering3.txt
> 2<br>π<br>r<br><br>λ<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle x={\frac {2\pi r}{\lambda }}}<br><br><br>where r is the particle's radius, λ is the wavelength of the light and x is a dimensionless parameter that characterizes the particle's interaction with the incident radiation such that: Objects with x ≫ 1 act as geometric shapes, scattering light according to their projected area. At the intermediate x ≃ 1 of Mie scattering, interference effects develop through phase variations over the object's surface. Rayleigh scattering applies to the case when the scattering particle is very small (x ≪ 1, with a particle size < 1/10 of wavelength[10]) and the whole surface re-radiates with the same phase. Because the particles are randomly positioned, the scattered light arrives at a particular point with a random collection of phases; it is incoherent and the resulting intensity is just the sum of the squares of the amplitudes from each particle and therefore proportional to the inverse fourth power of the wavelength and the sixth power of its size.[11][12] The wavelength dependence is characteristic of dipole scattering[11] and the volume dependence will apply to any scattering mechanism. In detail, the intensity of light scattered by any one of the small spheres of diameter d and refractive index n from a beam of unpolarized light of wavelength λ and intensity I0 is given by[13]<br><br><br><br><br><br>I<br><br>s<br><br><br>=<br><br>I<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>+<br><br>cos<br><br>2<br><br><br>⁡<br>θ<br><br><br>2<br><br>R<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>λ<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>n<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br><br>n<br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br>2<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br>d<br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>6<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle I_{s}=I_{0}{\frac {1+\cos ^{2}\theta }{2R^{2}}}\left({\frac {2\pi }{\lambda }}\right)^{4}\left({\frac {n^{2}-1}{n^{2}+2}}\right)^{2}\left({\frac {d}{2}}\right)^{6}}<br><br><br>where R is the distance to the particle and θ is the scattering angle. Averaging this over all angles gives the Rayleigh scattering cross-section of the  particles in air:[14]<br><br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>s<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>8<br>π<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>2<br>π<br><br>λ<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>6<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br><br>n<br><br>2<br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br><br><br>n<br><br>2<br><br><br>+<br>2<br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \sigma _{\text{s}}={\frac {8\pi }{3}}\left({\frac {2\pi }{\lambda }}\right)^{4}d^{6}\left({\frac {n^{2}-1}{n^{2}+2}}\right)^{2}.}<br><br><br>Here n is the refractive index of the spheres that approximate the molecules of the gas; the index of the gas surrounding the spheres is neglected, an approximation that introduces an error of less than 0.05%.[15]<br>The fraction of light scattered by scattering particles over the unit travel length (e.g., meter) is the number of particles per unit volume N times the cross-section. For example, air has a refractive index of 1.0002793 at atmospheric pressure, where there are about 2×1025 molecules per cubic meter, and therefore the major constituent of the atmosphere, nitrogen, has a Rayleigh cross section of 5.1×10−31 m2 at a wavelength of 532 nm (green light).[15] This means that  about a fraction 10−5 of the light will be scattered for every meter of travel.<br>The strong wavelength dependence of the scattering (~λ−4) means that shorter (blue) wavelengths are scattered more strongly than longer (red) wavelengths.<br><br>From molecules[edit]<br>Figure showing the greater proportion of blue light scattered by the atmosphere relative to red light<br>The expression above can also be written in terms of individual molecules by expressing the dependence on refractive index in terms of the molecular polarizability α, proportional to the dipole moment induced by the electric field of the light. In this case, the Rayleigh scattering intensity for a single particle is given in CGS-units by[16]<br><br><br><br><br><br>I<br><br>s<br><br><br>=<br><br>I<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br><br>8<br><br>π

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, sunset_color/Rayleigh_scattering4.txt
> 4<br><br><br><br>α<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>λ<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br>1<br>+<br><br>cos<br><br>2<br><br><br>⁡<br>θ<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle I_{s}=I_{0}{\frac {8\pi ^{4}\alpha ^{2}}{\lambda ^{4}R^{2}}}(1+\cos ^{2}\theta )}<br><br><br>and in SI-units by<br><br><br><br><br><br>I<br><br>s<br><br><br>=<br><br>I<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>π<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>α<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ε<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>λ<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br>+<br><br>cos<br><br>2<br><br><br>⁡<br>(<br>θ<br>)<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle I_{s}=I_{0}{\frac {\pi ^{2}\alpha ^{2}}{{\varepsilon _{0}}^{2}\lambda ^{4}R^{2}}}{\frac {1+\cos ^{2}(\theta )}{2}}}<br><br>.<br><br>Effect of fluctuations[edit]<br>When the dielectric constant <br><br><br><br>ϵ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \epsilon }<br><br> of a certain region of volume <br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>{\displaystyle V}<br><br> is different from the average dielectric constant of the medium <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ϵ<br>¯<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\bar {\epsilon }}}<br><br>, then any incident light will be scattered according to the following equation[17]<br><br><br><br><br>I<br>=<br><br>I<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>π<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>V<br><br>2<br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>ϵ<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br>λ<br><br>4<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>1<br>+<br><br>cos<br><br>2<br><br><br>⁡<br>θ<br><br>)

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 37, sunset_color/Rayleigh_scattering5.txt
> {\displaystyle I=I_{0}{\frac {\pi ^{2}V^{2}\sigma _{\epsilon }^{2}}{2\lambda ^{4}R^{2}}}{\left(1+\cos ^{2}\theta \right)}}<br><br>where <br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>ϵ<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \sigma _{\epsilon }^{2}}<br><br> represents the variance of the fluctuation in the dielectric constant <br><br><br><br>ϵ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \epsilon }<br><br>.<br><br>Cause of the blue color of the sky[edit]<br>Main article: Diffuse sky radiation<br>Scattered blue light is polarized. The picture on the right is shot through a polarizing filter: the polarizer transmits light that is linearly polarized in a specific direction.<br>The strong wavelength dependence of the scattering (~λ−4) means that shorter (blue) wavelengths are scattered more strongly than longer (red) wavelengths. This results in the indirect blue light coming from all regions of the sky.  Rayleigh scattering is a good approximation of the manner in which light scattering occurs within various media for which scattering particles have a small size (parameter).<br>A portion of the beam of light coming from the Sun scatters off molecules of gas and other small particles in the atmosphere. Here, Rayleigh scattering primarily occurs through sunlight's interaction with randomly located air molecules. It is this scattered light that gives the surrounding sky its brightness and its color. As previously stated, Rayleigh scattering is inversely proportional to the fourth power of wavelength, so that shorter wavelength violet and blue light will scatter more than the longer wavelengths (yellow and especially red light). However, the Sun, like any star, has its own spectrum and so I0 in the scattering formula above is not constant but falls away in the violet. In addition the oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere absorbs wavelengths at the edge of the ultra-violet region of the spectrum.  The resulting color, which appears like a pale blue, actually is a mixture of all the scattered colors, mainly blue and green.  Conversely, glancing toward the Sun, the colors that were not scattered away—the longer wavelengths such as red and yellow light—are directly visible, giving the Sun itself a slightly yellowish hue. Viewed from space, however, the sky is black and the Sun is white.<br>The reddening of the Sun is intensified when it is near the horizon because the light being received directly from it must pass through more of the atmosphere. The effect is further increased because the sunlight must pass through a greater proportion of the atmosphere nearer the Earth's surface, where it is denser. This removes a significant proportion of the shorter wavelength (blue) and medium wavelength (green) light from the direct path to the observer. The remaining unscattered light is therefore mostly of longer wavelengths and appears more red.<br>Some of the scattering can also be from sulfate particles. For years after large Plinian eruptions, the blue cast of the sky is notably brightened by the persistent sulfate load of the stratospheric gases. Some works of the artist J. M. W. Turner may owe their vivid red colours to the eruption of Mount Tambora in his lifetime.[18]<br>In locations with little light pollution, the moonlit night sky is also blue, because moonlight is reflected sunlight, with a slightly lower color temperature due to the brownish color of the Moon. The moonlit sky is not perceived as blue, however, because at low light levels human vision comes mainly from rod cells that do not produce any color perception (Purkinje effect).[19]<br><br>Of sound in amorphous solids[edit]<br>Rayleigh scattering is also an important mechanism of wave scattering in amorphous solids such as glass, and is responsible for acoustic wave damping and phonon damping in glasses and granular matter at low or not too high temperatures.[20] This is because in glasses at higher temperatures the Rayleigh-type scattering regime is obscured by the anharmonic damping (typically with a ~λ−2 dependence on wavelength), which becomes increasingly more important as the temperature rises.<br><br>In amorphous solids – glasses – optical fibers[edit]<br>Rayleigh scattering is an important component of the scattering of optical signals in optical fibers. Silica fibers are glasses,  disordered materials with microscopic variations of density and refractive index. These give rise to energy losses due to the scattered light, with the following coefficient:[21]<br><br><br><br><br><br>α<br><br>scat<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>8<br><br>π<br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br>λ<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>n<br><br>8<br><br><br><br>p<br><br>2<br><br><br>k<br><br>T<br><br>f<br><br><br>β<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \alpha _{\text{scat}}={\frac {8\pi ^{3}}{3\lambda ^{4}}}n^{8}p^{2}kT_{\text{f}}\beta }<br><br><br>where n is the refraction index, p is the photoelastic coefficient of the glass, k is the Boltzmann constant, and β is the isothermal compressibility. Tf is a fictive temperature, representing the temperature at which the density fluctuations are "frozen" in the material.<br><br>In porous materials[edit]<br>Rayleigh scattering in opalescent glass: it appears blue from the side, but orange light shines through.[22]<br>Rayleigh-type λ−4 scattering can also be exhibited by porous materials. An example is the strong optical scattering by nanoporous materials.[23] The strong contrast in refractive index between pores and solid parts of sintered alumina results in very strong scattering, with light completely changing direction each five micrometers on average. The λ−4-type scattering is caused by the nanoporous structure (a narrow pore size distribution around ~70 nm) obtained by sintering monodispersive alumina powder.<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Rayleigh sky model<br>Rician fading<br>Optical phenomena – Observable events that result from the interaction of light and matterPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>Dynamic light scattering – Technique for determining size distribution of particles<br>Raman scattering – Inelastic scattering of photons by matter<br>Rayleigh–Gans approximation<br>Tyndall effect – Scattering of light by tiny particles in a colloidal suspension<br>Critical opalescence<br>HRS Computing – scientific simulation software<br>Marian Smoluchowski – Polish physicist (1872–1917)<br>Rayleigh criterion – Ability of any image-forming device to distinguish small details of an objectPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets<br>Aerial perspective – Atmospheric effects on the appearance of a distant object<br>Parametric process – Interacting phenomenon between light and matter<br>Bragg's law – Physical law regarding scattering angles of radiation through a medium<br>Works[edit]<br>Strutt, J.W (1871). "XV. On the light from the sky, its polarization and colour". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (271): 107–120. doi:10.1080/14786447108640452.<br>Strutt, J.W (1871). "XXXVI. On the light from the sky, its polarization and colour". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (273): 274–279. doi:10.1080/14786447108640479.<br>Strutt, J.W (1871). "LVIII. On the scattering of light by small particles". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (275): 447–454. doi:10.1080/14786447108640507.<br>Rayleigh, Lord (1881). "X. On the electromagnetic theory of light". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 12 (73): 81–101. doi:10.1080/14786448108627074.<br>Rayleigh, Lord (1899). "XXXIV. On the transmission of light through an atmosphere containing small particles in suspension, and on the origin of the blue of the sky". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 47 (287): 375–384. doi:10.1080/14786449908621276.<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Lord Rayleigh (John Strutt) refined his theory of scattering in a series of papers; see Works.<br><br>^ Young, Andrew T (1981). "Rayleigh scattering". Applied Optics. 20 (4): 533–5. Bibcode:1981ApOpt..20..533Y. doi:10.1364/AO.20.000533. PMID 20309152.<br><br>^ Tyndall, John (1869). "On the blue colour of the sky, the polarization of skylight, and on the polarization of light by cloudy matter generally". Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. 17: 223–233. doi:10.1098/rspl.1868.0033.<br><br>^ Conocimiento, Ventana al (2018-08-01). "John Tyndall, the Man who Explained Why the Sky is Blue". OpenMind. Retrieved 2019-03-31.<br><br>^ Strutt, Hon. J.W. (1871). "On the light from the sky, its polarization and colour". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (271): 107–120. doi:10.1080/14786447108640452.<br><br>^ Strutt, Hon. J.W. (1871). "On the light from the sky, its polarization and colour". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (273): 274–279. doi:10.1080/14786447108640479.<br><br>^ Strutt, Hon. J.W. (1871). "On the scattering of light by small particles". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 41 (275): 447–454. doi:10.1080/14786447108640507.<br><br>^ Rayleigh, Lord (1881). "On the electromagnetic theory of light". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 12 (73): 81–101. doi:10.1080/14786448108627074.<br><br>^ Rayleigh, Lord (1899). "On the transmission of light through an atmosphere containing small particles in suspension, and on the origin of the blue of the sky". The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 47 (287): 375–384. doi:10.1080/14786449908621276.<br><br>^ Blue Sky and Rayleigh Scattering. Hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu. Retrieved on 2018-08-06.<br><br>^ a b "Cornell lectures" (PDF). Retrieved 2 April 2014.<br><br>^ Barnett, C.E. (1942). "Some application of wavelength turbidimetry in the infrared". J. Phys. Chem. 46 (1): 69–75. doi:10.1021/j150415a009.<br><br>^ Seinfeld, John H. and Pandis, Spyros N. (2006) Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 2nd Edition, John Wiley and Sons, New Jersey, Chapter 15.1.1, ISBN 0471720186<br><br>^ Cox, A.J. (2002). "An experiment to measure Mie and Rayleigh total scattering cross sections". American Journal of Physics. 70 (6): 620. Bibcode:2002AmJPh..70..620C. doi:10.1119/1.1466815. S2CID 16699491.<br><br>^ a b Sneep, Maarten; Ubachs, Wim (2005). "Direct measurement of the Rayleigh scattering cross section in various gases". Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer. 92 (3): 293–310. Bibcode:2005JQSRT..92..293S. doi:10.1016/j.jqsrt.2004.07.025.<br><br>^ Rayleigh scattering. Hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu. Retrieved on 2018-08-06.<br><br>^ McQuarrie, Donald A. (Donald Allan) (2000). Statistical mechanics. Sausalito, Calif.: University Science Books. pp. 62. ISBN 1891389157. OCLC 43370175.<br><br>^ Zerefos, C. S.; Gerogiannis, V. T.; Balis, D.; Zerefos, S. C.; Kazantzidis, A. (2007), "Atmospheric effects of volcanic eruptions as seen by famous artists and depicted in their paintings" (PDF), Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 7 (15): 4027–4042, Bibcode:2007ACP.....7.4027Z, doi:10.5194/acp-7-4027-2007<br><br>^ Choudhury, Asim Kumar Roy (2014), "Unusual visual phenomena and colour blindness", Principles of Colour and Appearance Measurement, Elsevier, pp. 185–220, doi:10.1533/9780857099242.185, ISBN 978-0-85709-229-8, retrieved 2022-03-29<br><br>^ Mahajan, Shivam; Pica Ciamarra, Massimo (2023). "Quasi-localized vibrational modes, boson peak and sound attenuation in model mass-spring networks". SciPost Physics. 15 (2). arXiv:2211.01137. doi:10.21468/SciPostPhys.15.2.069.<br><br>^ Rajagopal, K. (2008) Textbook on Engineering Physics, PHI, New Delhi, part I, Ch. 3, ISBN 8120336658<br><br>^ Blue & red | Causes of Color. Webexhibits.org. Retrieved on 2018-08-06.<br><br>^ Svensson, Tomas; Shen, Zhijian (2010). "Laser spectroscopy of gas confined in nanoporous materials" (PDF). Applied Physics Letters. 96 (2): 021107. arXiv:0907.5092. Bibcode:2010ApPhL..96b1107S. doi:10.1063/1.3292210. S2CID 53705149.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons has media related to Atmospheric Rayleigh scattering.<br><br>Further reading[edit]<br><br>C.F. Bohren, D. Huffman, Absorption and scattering of light by small particles, John Wiley, New York 1983. Contains a good description of the asymptotic behavior of Mie theory for small size parameter (Rayleigh approximation).<br>Ditchburn, R.W. (1963). Light (2nd ed.). London: Blackie & Sons. pp. 582–585. ISBN 978-0-12-218101-6.<br>Chakraborti, Sayan (September 2007). "Verification of the Rayleigh scattering cross section". American Journal of Physics. 75 (9): 824–826. arXiv:physics/0702101. Bibcode:2007AmJPh..75..824C. doi:10.1119/1.2752825. S2CID 119100295.<br>Ahrens, C. Donald (1994). Meteorology Today: an introduction to weather, climate, and the environment (5th ed.). St. Paul MN: West Publishing Company. pp. 88–89. ISBN 978-0-314-02779-5.<br>Lilienfeld, Pedro (2004). "A Blue Sky History". Optics and Photonics News. 15 (6): 32–39. doi:10.1364/OPN.15.6.000032. Gives a brief history of theories of why the sky is blue leading up to Rayleigh's discovery, and a brief description of Rayleigh scattering.<br><br>External links[edit]<br>HyperPhysics description of Rayleigh scattering<br>Full physical explanation of sky color, in simple terms<br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rayleigh_scattering&oldid=1215352628"<br>Categories: Scattering, absorption and radiative transfer (optics)Atmospheric optical phenomenaVisibilityLightConcepts in physicsScientific phenomenaPhysical phenomenaHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated linkCommons category link is locally defined<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 24 March 2024, at 16:45 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 22, sunset_color/Rayleigh_scattering2.txt
> 6Of sound in amorphous solids<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7In amorphous solids – glasses – optical fibers<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>8In porous materials<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>9See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>10Works<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>11References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>12Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>13External links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Rayleigh scattering<br><br><br><br>53 languages<br><br><br><br><br>AfrikaansالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهБългарскиBosanskiCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilge한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLietuviųLombardMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSvenskaТатарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt粵語中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Light scattering by small particles<br>This article is about the optical phenomenon. For the magnetic phenomenon, see Rayleigh law. For the stochastic distribution, see Rayleigh distribution. For the wireless communication effect, see Rayleigh fading.<br>Rayleigh scattering causes the blue color of the daytime sky and the reddening of the Sun at sunset.<br>Rayleigh scattering (/ˈreɪli/ RAY-lee), named after the 19th-century British physicist Lord Rayleigh (John William Strutt),[1] is the predominantly elastic scattering of light, or other electromagnetic radiation, by particles with a size much smaller than the wavelength of the radiation. For light frequencies well below the resonance frequency of the scattering medium (normal dispersion regime), the amount of scattering is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the wavelength, e.g., a blue color is scattered much more than a red color as light propagates through air.<br>Rayleigh scattering results from the electric polarizability of the particles. The oscillating electric field of a light wave acts on the charges within a particle, causing them to move at the same frequency. The particle, therefore, becomes a small radiating dipole whose radiation we see as scattered light. The particles may be individual atoms or molecules; it can occur when light travels through transparent solids and liquids, but is most prominently seen in gases.<br>Rayleigh scattering of sunlight in Earth's atmosphere causes diffuse sky radiation, which is the reason for the blue color of the daytime and twilight sky, as well as the yellowish to reddish hue of the low Sun. Sunlight is also subject to Raman scattering, which changes the rotational state of the molecules and gives rise to polarization effects.[2]<br>Scattering by particles with a size comparable to, or larger than, the wavelength of the light is typically treated by the Mie theory, the discrete dipole approximation and other computational techniques. Rayleigh scattering applies to particles that are small with respect to wavelengths of light, and that are optically "soft" (i.e., with a refractive index close to 1). Anomalous diffraction theory applies to optically soft but larger particles.<br><br><br>History[edit]<br>In 1869, while attempting to determine whether any contaminants remained in the purified air he used for infrared experiments, John Tyndall discovered that bright light scattering off nanoscopic particulates was faintly blue-tinted.[3][4] He conjectured that a similar scattering of sunlight gave the sky its blue hue, but he could not explain the preference for blue light, nor could atmospheric dust explain the intensity of the sky's color.<br>In 1871, Lord Rayleigh published two papers on the color and polarization of skylight to quantify Tyndall's effect in water droplets in terms of the tiny particulates' volumes and refractive indices.[5][6][7] In 1881, with the benefit of James Clerk Maxwell's 1865 proof of the electromagnetic nature of light, he showed that his equations followed from electromagnetism.[8] In 1899, he showed that they applied to individual molecules, with terms containing particulate volumes and refractive indices replaced with terms for molecular polarizability.[9]<br><br>Small size parameter approximation[edit]<br>The size of a scattering particle is often parameterized by the ratio<br><br><br><br><br>x<br>=<br><br><br><br>2

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 16, sunset_color/Sunset4.txt
> Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Daily falling of the Sun below the horizon<br>For other uses, see Sunset (disambiguation).<br>Not to be confused with Dusk.<br>Actual sunset: Two minutes before the Sun disappears below the horizon.<br>Sunset (or sundown) is the disappearance of the Sun below the horizon of the Earth (or any other astronomical object in the Solar System) due to its rotation. As viewed from everywhere on Earth, it is a phenomenon that happens approximately once every 24 hours, except in areas close to the poles. The equinox Sun sets due west at the moment of both the spring and autumn equinoxes. As viewed from the Northern Hemisphere, the Sun sets to the northwest (or not at all) in the spring and summer, and to the southwest in the autumn and winter; these seasons are reversed for the Southern Hemisphere.<br>The time of actual sunset is defined in astronomy as two minutes before the upper limb of the Sun disappears below the horizon.[1] Near the horizon, atmospheric refraction causes sunlight rays to be distorted to such an extent that geometrically the solar disk is already about one diameter below the horizon when a sunset is observed.<br>Sunset is distinct from twilight, which is divided into three stages. The first one is civil twilight, which begins once the Sun has disappeared below the horizon, and continues until it descends to 6 degrees below the horizon. The early to intermediate stages of twilight coincide with predusk. The second phase is nautical twilight, between 6 and 12 degrees below the horizon. The third phase is astronomical twilight, which is the period when the Sun is between 12 and 18 degrees below the horizon.[2] Dusk is at the very end of astronomical twilight, and is the darkest moment of twilight just before night.[3] Finally, night occurs when the Sun reaches 18 degrees below the horizon and no longer illuminates the sky.[4]<br>Locations further north than the Arctic Circle and further south than the Antarctic Circle experience no full sunset or sunrise on at least one day of the year, when the polar day or the polar night persists continuously for 24 hours. At latitudes greater than within half a degree of either pole, the sun cannot rise or set on the same date on any day of the year, since the sun's angular elevation between solar noon and midnight is less than one degree.<br><br><br>Occurrence[edit]<br>See also: Analemma<br>This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Stages of the twilight period<br>The time of sunset varies throughout the year and is determined by the viewer's position on Earth, specified by latitude and longitude, altitude, and time zone. Small daily changes and noticeable semi-annual changes in the timing of sunsets are driven by the axial tilt of the Earth, daily rotation of the Earth, the planet's movement in its annual elliptical orbit around the Sun, and the Earth and Moon's paired revolutions around each other. During winter and spring, the days get longer and sunsets occur later every day until the day of the latest sunset, which occurs after the summer solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere, the latest sunset occurs late in June or in early July, but not on the summer solstice of June 21. This date depends on the viewer's latitude (connected with the Earth's slower movement around the aphelion around July 4). Likewise, the earliest sunset does not occur on the winter solstice, but rather about two weeks earlier, again depending on the viewer's latitude. In the Northern Hemisphere, it occurs in early December or late November (influenced by the Earth's faster movement near its perihelion, which occurs around January 3).[citation needed]<br>Likewise, the same phenomenon exists in the Southern Hemisphere, but with the respective dates reversed, with the earliest sunsets occurring some time before June 21 in winter, and latest sunsets occurring some time after December 21 in summer, again depending on one's southern latitude. For a few weeks surrounding both solstices, both sunrise and sunset get slightly later each day. Even on the equator, sunrise and sunset shift several minutes back and forth through the year, along with solar noon. These effects are plotted by an analemma.[5][6]<br>Neglecting atmospheric refraction and the Sun's non-zero size, whenever and wherever sunset occurs, it is always in the northwest quadrant from the March equinox to the September equinox, and in the southwest quadrant from the September equinox to the March equinox. Sunsets occur almost exactly due west on the equinoxes for all viewers on Earth. Exact calculations of the azimuths of sunset on other dates are complex, but they can be estimated with reasonable accuracy by using the analemma.[citation needed]<br>As sunrise and sunset are calculated from the leading and trailing edges of the Sun, respectively, and not the center, the duration of a daytime is slightly longer than nighttime (by about 10 minutes, as seen from temperate latitudes). Further, because the light from the Sun is refracted as it passes through the Earth's atmosphere, the Sun is still visible after it is geometrically below the horizon. Refraction also affects the apparent shape of the Sun when it is very close to the horizon. It makes things appear higher in the sky than they really are. Light from the bottom edge of the Sun's disk is refracted more than light from the top, since refraction increases as the angle of elevation decreases. This raises the apparent position of the bottom edge more than the top, reducing the apparent height of the solar disk. Its width is unaltered, so the disk appears wider than it is high. (In reality, the Sun is almost exactly spherical.) The Sun also appears larger on the horizon, an optical illusion, similar to the moon illusion.[citation needed]<br>Locations north of the Arctic Circle and south of the Antarctic Circle experience no sunset or sunrise at least one day of the year, when the polar day or the polar night persist continuously for 24 hours.[citation needed]<br><br>Location on the horizon[edit]<br>Further information: Solar azimuth angle<br>A video time lapse of a sunset in Tokyo<br>Approximate locations of sunset on the horizon (azimuth) as described above can be found in Refs.[7][8]<br>The figure on the right is calculated using the solar geometry routine as follows:[9]<br><br>For a given latitude and a given date, calculate the declination of the Sun using <br><br><br><br><br>0<br><br>∘<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle 0^{\circ }}<br><br> longitude and solar noon time as inputs to the routine;<br>Calculate the sunset hour angle using the sunset equation;<br>Calculate the sunset time, which is the solar noon time plus the sunset hour angle in degree divided by 15;<br>Use the sunset time as input to the solar geometry routine to get the solar azimuth angle at sunset.<br>An interesting feature in the figure on the right is apparent hemispheric symmetry in regions where daily sunrise and sunset actually occur. This symmetry becomes clear if the hemispheric relation in sunrise equation is applied to the x- and y-components of the solar vector presented in Ref.[9]<br><br>Colors[edit]<br>See also: Sunrise § Colors<br>Further information: Atmospheric optics<br>Evening twilight in Joshua Tree, California, displaying the separation of yellow colors in the direction from the Sun below the horizon to the observer, and the blue components scattered from the surrounding sky<br>As a ray of white sunlight travels through the atmosphere to an observer, some of the colors are scattered out of the beam by air molecules and airborne particles, changing the final color of the beam the viewer sees.<br>Because the shorter wavelength components, such as blue and green, scatter more strongly, these colors are preferentially removed from the beam.[10] At sunrise and sunset, when the path through the atmosphere is longer, the blue and green components are removed almost completely, leaving the longer wavelength orange and red hues we see at those times. The remaining reddened sunlight can then be scattered by cloud droplets and other relatively large particles to light up the horizon red and orange.[11] The removal of the shorter wavelengths of light is due to Rayleigh scattering by air molecules and particles much smaller than the wavelength of visible light (less than 50 nm in diameter).[12][13]  The scattering by cloud droplets and other particles with diameters comparable to or larger than the sunlight's wavelengths ( 600 nm) is due to Mie scattering and is not strongly wavelength-dependent.  Mie scattering is responsible for the light scattered by clouds, and also for the daytime halo of white light around the Sun (forward scattering of white light).[14][15][16]<br>Sunset colors are typically more brilliant than sunrise colors, because the evening air contains more particles than morning air.[10][11][13][16] Sometimes just before sunrise or after sunset a green flash can be seen.[17]<br>Ash from volcanic eruptions, trapped within the troposphere, tends to mute sunset and sunrise colors, while volcanic ejecta that is instead lofted into the stratosphere (as thin clouds of tiny sulfuric acid droplets), can yield beautiful post-sunset colors called afterglows and pre-sunrise glows. A number of eruptions, including those of Mount Pinatubo in 1991 and Krakatoa in 1883, have produced sufficiently high stratus clouds containing sulfuric acid to yield remarkable sunset afterglows (and pre-sunrise glows) around the world. The high altitude clouds serve to reflect strongly reddened sunlight still striking the stratosphere after sunset, down to the surface.<br>Some of the most varied colors at sunset can be found in the opposite or eastern sky after the Sun has set during twilight. Depending on weather conditions and the types of clouds present, these colors have a wide spectrum, and can produce unusual results.[citation needed]<br><br>Names of compass points[edit]<br>In some languages, points of the compass bear names etymologically derived from words for sunrise and sunset. The English words "orient" and "occident", meaning "east" and "west", respectively, are descended from Latin words meaning "sunrise" and "sunset". The word "levant", related e.g. to French "(se) lever" meaning "lift" or "rise" (and also to English "elevate"), is also used to describe the east. In Polish, the word for east wschód (vskhud), is derived from the morpheme "ws" – meaning "up", and "chód" – signifying "move" (from the verb chodzić – meaning "walk, move"), due to the act of the Sun coming up from behind the horizon. The Polish word for west, zachód (zakhud), is similar but with the word "za" at the start, meaning "behind", from the act of the Sun going behind the horizon. In Russian, the word for west, запад (zapad), is derived from the words за – meaning "behind", and пад – signifying "fall" (from the verb падать – padat'), due to the act of the Sun falling behind the horizon. In Hebrew, the word for east is 'מזרח', which derives from the word for rising, and the word for west is 'מערב', which derives from the word for setting.<br><br>Historical view[edit]<br>See also: History of astronomy<br>The 16th-century astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus was the first to present to the world a detailed and eventually widely accepted mathematical model supporting the premise that the Earth is moving and the Sun actually stays still, despite the impression from our point of view of a moving Sun.[18]<br><br>Planets[edit]<br>Sunsets on other planets appear different because of differences in the distance of the planet from the Sun and non-existent or differing atmospheric compositions.<br><br>Mars[edit]<br>See also: Astronomy on Mars<br>Sunset on Mars<br>On Mars, the setting Sun appears about two-thirds the size it does from Earth,[19] due to the greater distance between Mars and the Sun. The colors are typically hues of blue, but some Martian sunsets last significantly longer and appear far redder than is typical on Earth.[20]<br>The colors of the Martian sunset differ from those on Earth. Mars has a thin atmosphere, lacking oxygen and nitrogen, so the light scattering is not dominated by a Rayleigh Scattering process. Instead, the air is full of red dust, blown into the atmosphere by high winds,[20] so its sky color is mainly determined by a Mie Scattering process, resulting in more blue hues than an Earth sunset. One study also reported that Martian dust high in the atmosphere can reflect sunlight up to two hours after the Sun has set, casting a diffuse glow across the surface of Mars.[20]<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Dawn<br>Diffuse sky radiation<br>Earth's shadow, visible at sunset<br>Golden hour (photography)<br>Sundown town<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Ridpath, Ian (2012-01-01), "sunset", A Dictionary of Astronomy, Oxford University Press, doi:10.1093/acref/9780199609055.001.0001, ISBN 978-0-19-960905-5, retrieved 2021-10-05<br><br>^ "Definitions from the US Astronomical Applications Dept (USNO)". Archived from the original on 2015-08-14. Retrieved 2016-06-17.<br><br>^ "Full definition of Dusk".<br><br>^ "Sunset vs Dusk [What Is The Difference Between The Two?]". Astronomy Scope. 2020-12-03. Retrieved 2021-10-03.<br><br>^ Starry Night Times – January 2007 (explains why Sun appears to cross slow before early January)
