# Query `57`

## Original Question

*If I wanted to make an air shield around the earth to contain exactly half the planet's atmosphere (by mass), how far above sea level would I have to build it?

It's slightly complicated to me because you have to take into consideration the change in pressure as well as the geometric growth of the volume of a sphere as you increase the radius.

Thank you.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.1250
recall_5: 0.1250
recall_10: 0.2500
recall_25: 0.2500
recall_50: 0.2500
recall_100: 0.3750
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3392
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3291
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3291
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3291
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3702
map_cut_1: 0.1250
map_cut_5: 0.1250
map_cut_10: 0.1528
map_cut_25: 0.1528
map_cut_50: 0.1528
map_cut_100: 0.1581
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) beyond_atmosphere/atmthick_html2.txt
> never quite goes to zero.<br>Similar questions are: "How long does it take for a capacitor to discharge?"<br>or "How long does it take for radioactive material to decay?".<br>These are all examples of asymptotic behavior.<br>But, much in the same way that we make a definition that allows us to<br>speak of the thickness of a boundary layer in viscous fluid flow, we can<br>give a definition of the thickness of the atmosphere that satisfies our<br>engineering needs.<br><br><br>To make this estimation, the first thing to do is to compute the mass<br>distribution of the atmosphere.<br>For a given altitude, define m(alt) to be the total mass of air from<br>sea level up to alt over the entire earth.<br>This is simply a matter of integrating the density of the atmosphere<br>over the volume between a sphere of radius E and a sphere of radius alt+E,<br>where E is the radius of the earth.<br>You may examine my page that describes the numerical details of<br>performing this numerical integration.<br>PDF, 44KB.<br><br><br>The results of this computation are shown in the table and chart below.<br>Note that m is given in zettagrams. One zettagram = 1021 grams = 1 Zg.<br>Zetta is the prefix for 1021, just as we use peta for 1015 and tera for 1012,<br>and Z stands for zetta when combining with an abbreviated unit such as g for gram.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) humidity_and_rain/Atmospheric_pressure1_1.txt
> ; that is, the Earth's atmospheric pressure at sea level is approximately 1 atm.<br>In most circumstances, atmospheric pressure is closely approximated by the hydrostatic pressure caused by the weight of air above the measurement point. As elevation increases, there is less overlying atmospheric mass, so atmospheric pressure decreases with increasing elevation. Because the atmosphere is thin relative to the Earth's radius—especially the dense atmospheric layer at low altitudes—the Earth's gravitational acceleration as a function of altitude can be approximated as constant and contributes little to this fall-off. Pressure measures force per unit area, with

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/8803_8.txt
> Physics video introduces a few key concepts that make measuring sea level pretty complex:<br><br>The Earth is not perfectly spherical, but an ellipsoid, due to its spin. This means that the Earth is “fatter” at the equator and slightly flattened at the poles, so that: “if you thought Earth was a sphere and defined sea level by standing on the sea ice at the North Pole, then the surface of the ocean at the equator would be 21km above sea level”.<br>Differential density of the interior of the Earth so that “

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) far_from_sea_level/how_far_above_sea_level_can_you_get_on_the_equator2.txt
> Users<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>How far above sea level can you get on the equator?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>4 years, 9 months ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>4 years, 9 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        328 times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            4<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Quite simply what is the highest point above sea level that is right on the equator, I figured it would be a mountain in the Ecuadorian Andes but the Kenyan highlands look to be a likely candidate as well. I've tried to find it but I simply can't find a map that has the equator and the altitude in a highly accurate format and resolution anywhere.<br><br><br><br><br>geography<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Jul 7, 2019 at 12:12<br><br><br><br><br><br>Ash<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Jun 30, 2019 at 19:40<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AshAsh<br><br>4,2601313 silver badges2424 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I assume you mean on exactly the 0° latitude line. Otherwise it would be Chimborazo which is 1° 28' N.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Spencer<br><br>Jul 1, 2019 at 2:16<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>If you want to put in the work,  you can download and view a free DEM at gisgeography.com/free-global-dem-data-sources<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Spencer<br><br>Jul 1, 2019 at 2:23<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> |

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) sea_level_rising_factor/Sea_level_rise5.txt
> part5 -------------------<br>Causes[edit]<br>Earth lost 28 trillion tonnes of ice between 1994 and 2017: ice sheets and glaciers raised the global sea level by 34.6 ± 3.1 mm. The rate of ice loss has risen by 57% since the 1990s−from 0.8 to 1.2 trillion tonnes per year.<br>The three main reasons warming causes global sea level to rise are the expansion of oceans due to heating, water inflow from melting ice sheets and water inflow from glaciers. Glacier retreat and ocean expansion have dominated sea level rise since the start of the 20th century. Some of the losses from glaciers are offset when precipitation falls as snow, accumulates and over time forms glacial ice. If precipitation, surface processes and ice loss at the edge balance each other, sea level remains the same. Because of this precipitation began as water vapor evaporated from the ocean surface, effects of climate change on the water cycle can even increase ice build-up. However, this effect is not enough to fully offset ice losses, and sea level rise continues to accelerate.<br>The contributions of the two large ice sheets, in Greenland and Antarctica, are likely to increase in the 21st century. They store most of the land ice (~99.5%) and have a sea-level equivalent (SLE) of 7.4 m (24 ft 3 in) for Greenland and 58.3 m (191 ft 3 in) for Antarctica. Thus, melting of all the ice on Earth would result in about 70 m (229 ft 8 in) of sea level rise, although this would require at least 10,000 years and up to 10 °C (18 °F) of global warming.<br>Ocean heating[edit]<br><br>Main article: Ocean heat content<br>There has been an increase in ocean heat content during recent decades as the oceans absorb most of the excess heat created by human-induced global warming.<br>The oceans store more than 90% of the extra heat added to Earth's climate system by climate change and act as a buffer against its effects. This means that the same amount of heat that would increase the average world ocean temperature by 0.01 °C (0.018 °F) would increase atmospheric temperature by approximately 10 °C (18 °F). So a small change in the mean temperature of the ocean represents a very large change in the total heat content of the climate system. Winds and currents move heat into deeper parts of the ocean. Some of it reaches depths of more than 2,000 m (6,600 ft).<br>When the ocean gains heat, the water expands and sea level rises. Warmer water and water under great pressure (due to depth) expand more than cooler water and water under less pressure. Consequently, cold Arctic Ocean water will expand less than warm tropical water. Different climate models present slightly different patterns of ocean heating. So their projections do not agree fully on how much ocean heating contributes to sea level rise.<br>Antarctic ice loss[edit]<br>Processes around an Antarctic ice shelf<br>The Ross Ice Shelf is Antarctica's largest. It is about the size of France and up to several hundred metres thick.<br>The large volume of ice on the Antarctic continent stores around 60% of the world's fresh water. Excluding groundwater this is 90%. Antarctica is experiencing ice loss from coastal glaciers in the West Antarctica and some glaciers of East Antarctica. However it is gaining mass from the increased snow build-up inland, particularly in the East. This leads to contradicting trends. There are different satellite methods for measuring ice mass and change. Combining them helps to reconcile the differences. However, there can still be variations between the studies. In 2018, a systematic review estimated average annual ice loss of 43 billion tons (Gt) across the entire continent between 1992 and 2002. This tripled to an annual average of 220 Gt from 2012 to 2017. However, a 2021 analysis of data from four different research satellite systems (Envisat, European Remote-Sensing Satellite, GRACE and GRACE-FO and ICESat) indicated annual mass loss of only about 12 Gt from 2012 to 2016. This was due to greater ice gain in East Antarctica than estimated earlier.<br>In the future, it is known that West Antarctica at least will continue to lose mass, and the likely future losses of sea ice and ice shelves, which block warmer currents from direct contact with the ice sheet, can accelerate declines even in the East. Altogether, Antarctica is the source of the largest uncertainty for future sea level projections. By 2019, several studies attempted to estimate 2300 sea level rise caused by ice loss in Antarctica alone. They suggest a median rise of 16 cm (6+1⁄2 in) and maximum rise of 37 cm (14+1⁄2 in) under the low-emission scenario. The highest emission scenario results in a median rise of 1.46 m (5 ft) metres, with a minimum of 60 cm (2 ft) and a maximum of 2.89 m (9+1⁄2 ft)).<br>East Antarctica[edit]<br>The world's largest potential source of sea level rise is the East Antarctic Ice Sheet (EAIS). It is 2.2 km thick on average and holds enough ice to raise global sea levels by 53.3 m (174 ft 10 in) Its great thickness and high elevation make it more stable than the other ice sheets. As of the early 2020s, most studies show that it is still gaining mass. Some analyses have suggested it began to lose mass in the 2000s. However they over-extrapolated some observed losses on to the poorly observed areas. A more complete observational record shows continued mass gain.<br>Aerial view of ice flows at Denman Glacier, one of the less stable glaciers in the East Antarctica<br>In spite of the net mass gain, some East Antarctica glaciers have lost ice in recent decades due to ocean warming and declining structural support from the local sea ice, such as Denman Glacier, and Totten Glacier. Totten Glacier is particularly important because it stabilizes the Aurora Subglacial Basin. Subglacial basins like Aurora and Wilkes Basin are major ice reservoirs together holding as much ice as all of West Antarctica. They are more vulnerable than the rest of East Antarctica. Their collective tipping point probably lies at around 3 °C (5.4 °F) of global warming. It may be as high as 6 °C (11 °F) or as low as 2 °C (3.6 °F). Once this tipping point is crossed, the collapse of these subglacial basins could take place over as little as 500 or as much as 10,000 years. The median timeline is 2000 years. Depending on how many subglacial basins are vulnerable, this causes sea level rise of between 1.4 m (4 ft 7 in) and 6.4 m (21 ft 0 in).<br>On the other hand, the whole EAIS would not definitely collapse until global warming reaches 7.5 °C (13.5 °F), with a range between 5 °C (9.0 °F) and 10 °C (18 °F). It would take at least 10,000 years to disappear. Some scientists have estimated that warming would have to reach at least 6 °C (11 °F) to melt two thirds of its volume.<br>West Antarctica[edit]<br>Thwaites Glacier, with its vulnerable bedrock topography visible.<br>East Antarctica contains the largest potential source of sea level rise. However the West Antarctica ice sheet (WAIS) is substantially more vulnerable. Temperatures on West Antarctica have increased significantly, unlike East Antarctica and the Antarctic Peninsula. The trend is between 0.08 °C (0.14 °F) and 0.96 °C (1.73 °F) per decade between 1976 and 2012. Satellite observations recorded a substantial increase in WAIS melting from 1992 to 2017. This resulted in 7.6 ± 3.9 mm (19⁄64 ± 5⁄32 in) of Antarctica sea level rise. Outflow glaciers in the Amundsen Sea Embayment played a disproportionate role.<br>Scientists estimated in 2021 that the median increase in sea level rise from Antarctica by 2100 is ~11 cm (5 in). There is no difference between scenarios, because the increased warming would intensify the water cycle and increase snowfall accumulation over the EAIS at about the same rate as it would increase ice loss from WAIS. However, most of the bedrock underlying the WAIS lies well below sea level, and it has to be buttressed by the Thwaites and Pine Island glaciers. If these glaciers were to collapse, the entire ice sheet would as well. Their disappearance would take at least several centuries, but is considered almost inevitable, as their bedrock topography deepens inland and becomes more vulnerable to meltwater.<br>The contribution of these glaciers to global sea levels has already accelerated since the beginning of the 21st century. The Thwaites Glacier now accounts for 4% of global sea level rise. It could start to lose even more ice if the Thwaites Ice Shelf fails, potentially in mid-2020s. This is due to marine ice sheet instability hypothesis, where warm water enters between the seafloor and the base of the ice sheet once it is no longer heavy enough to displace the flow, causing accelerated melting and collapse. Marine ice cliff instability, when ice cliffs with heights greater than 100 m (330 ft) collapse under their own weight once they are no longer buttressed by ice shelves, may also occur, though it has never been observed, and more detailed modelling has ruled it out.<br>A graphical representation of how warm waters, and the Marine Ice Sheet Instability and Marine Ice Cliff Instability processes are affecting the West Antarctic Ice Sheet<br>Other hard-to-model processes include hydrofracturing, where meltwater collects atop the ice sheet, pools into fractures and forces them open. and changes in the ocean circulation at a smaller scale. A combination of these processes could cause the WAIS to contribute up to 41 cm (16 in) by 2100 under the low-emission scenario and up to 57 cm (22 in) under the highest-emission one.<br>The melting of all the ice in West Antarctica would increase the total sea level rise to 4.3 m (14 ft 1 in). However, mountain ice caps not in contact with water are less vulnerable than the majority of the ice sheet, which is located below the sea level. Its collapse would cause ~3.3 m (10 ft 10 in) of sea level rise. This collapse is now considered practically inevitable, as it appears to have already occurred during the Eemian period 125,000 years ago, when temperatures were similar to the early 21st century. This disappearance would take an estimated 2000 years. The absolute minimum for the loss of West Antarctica ice is 500 years, and the potential maximum is 13,000 years.<br>The only way to stop ice loss from West Antarctica once triggered is by lowering the global temperature to 1 °C (1.8 °F) below the preindustrial level. This would be 2 °C (3.6 °F) below the temperature of 2020. Other researchers suggested that a climate engineering intervention to stabilize the ice sheet's glaciers may delay its loss by centuries and give more time to adapt. However this is an uncertain proposal, and would end up as one of the most expensive projects ever attempted.<br>Isostatic rebound[edit]<br>2021 research indicates that isostatic rebound after the loss of the main portion of the West Antarctic ice sheet would ultimately add another 1.02 m (3 ft 4 in) to global sea levels. This effect would start to increase sea levels before 2100. However it would take 1000 years for it to cause 83 cm (2 ft 9 in) of sea level rise. At this point, West Antarctica itself would be 610 m (2,001 ft 4 in) higher than now. Estimates of isostatic rebound after the loss of East Antarctica's subglacial basins suggest increases of between 8 cm (3.1 in) and 57 cm (1 ft 10 in)<br>Greenland ice sheet loss[edit]<br>Greenland 2007 melt, measured as the difference between the number of days on which melting occurred in 2007 compared to the average annual melting days from 1988 to 2006<br>Most ice on Greenland is in the Greenland ice sheet which is 3 km (10,000 ft) at its thickest. The rest of Greenland ice forms isolated glaciers and ice caps. The average annual ice loss in Greenland more than doubled in the early 21st century compared to the 20th century. Its  contribution to sea level rise correspondingly increased from 0.07 mm per year between 1992 and 1997 to 0.68 mm per year between 2012 and 2017. Total ice loss from the Greenland ice sheet between 1992 and 2018 amounted to 3,902 gigatons (Gt) of ice. This is equivalent to a SLR contribution of 10.8 mm. The contribution for the 2012–2016 period was equivalent to 37% of sea level rise from land ice sources (excluding thermal expansion). This observed rate of ice sheet melting is at the higher end of predictions from past IPCC assessment reports.<br>In 2021, AR6 estimated that by 2100, the melting of Greenland ice sheet would most likely add around 6 cm (2+1⁄2 in) to sea levels under the low-emission scenario, and 13 cm (5 in) under the high-emission scenario. The first scenario, SSP1-2.6, largely fulfils the Paris Agreement goals, while the other, SSP5-8.5, has the emissions accelerate throughout the century. The uncertainty about ice sheet dynamics can affect both pathways. In the best-case scenario, ice sheet under SSP1-2.6 gains enough mass by 2100 through surface mass balance feedbacks to reduce the sea levels by 2 cm (1 in). In the worst case, it adds 15 cm (6 in). For SSP5-8.5, the best-case scenario is adding 5 cm (2 in) to sea levels, and the worst-case is adding 23 cm (9 in).<br>Trends of Greenland ice loss between 2002 and 2019<br>Greenland's peripheral glaciers and ice caps crossed an irreversible tipping point around 1997. Sea level rise from their loss is now unstoppable. However the temperature changes in future, the warming of 2000–2019 had already damaged the ice sheet enough for it to eventually lose ~3.3% of its volume. This is leading to 27 cm (10+1⁄2 in) of future sea level rise. At a certain level of global warming, the Greenland ice sheet will almost completely melt. Ice cores show this happened at least once during the last million years, when the temperatures have at most been 2.5 °C (4.5 °F) warmer than the preindustrial.<br>2012 research suggested that the tipping point of the ice sheet was between 0.8 °C (1.4 °F) and 3.2 °C (5.8 °F). 2023 modelling has narrowed the tipping threshold to a 1.7 °C (3.1 °F)-2.3 °C (4.1 °F) range. If temperatures reach or exceed that level, reducing the global temperature to 1.5 °C (2.7 °F) above pre-industrial levels or lower would prevent the loss of the entire ice sheet. One way to do this in theory would be large-scale carbon dioxide removal. But it would also cause greater losses and sea level rise from Greenland than if the threshold was not breached in the first place. Otherwise, the ice sheet would take between 10,000 and 15,000 years to disintegrate entirely once the tipping point had been crossed. The most likely estimate is 10,000 years. If climate change continues along its worst trajectory and temperatures continue to rise quickly over multiple centuries, it would only take 1,000 years.<br>Mountain glacier loss[edit]<br>Based on national pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, global mean temperature is projected to increase by 2.7 °C (4.9 °F), which would cause loss of about half of Earth's glaciers by 2100—causing a sea level rise of 115±40 millimeters.<br>There are roughly 200,000 glaciers on Earth, which are spread out across all continents. Less than 1% of glacier ice is in mountain glaciers, compared to 99% in Greenland and Antarctica. However, this small size also makes mountain glaciers more vulnerable to melting than the larger ice sheets. This means they have had a disproportionate contribution to historical sea level rise and are set to contribute a smaller, but still significant fraction of sea level rise in the 21st century. Observational and modelling studies of mass loss from glaciers and ice caps show they contribute 0.2-0.4 mm per year to sea level rise, averaged over the 20th century. The contribution for the 2012–2016 period was nearly as large as that of Greenland. It was 0.63 mm of sea level rise per year, equivalent to 34% of sea level rise from land ice sources. Glaciers contributed around 40% to sea level rise during the 20th century, with estimates for the 21st century of around 30%.<br>In 2023, a Science paper estimated that at 1.5 °C (2.7 °F), one quarter of mountain glacier mass would be lost by 2100 and nearly half would be lost at 4 °C (7.2 °F), contributing ~9 cm (3+1⁄2 in) and ~15 cm (6 in) to sea level rise, respectively. Glacier mass is disproportionately concentrated in the most resilient glaciers. So in practice this would remove 49-83% of glacier formations. It further estimated that the current likely trajectory of 2.7 °C (4.9 °F) would result in the SLR contribution of ~11 cm (4+1⁄2 in) by 2100. Mountain glaciers are even more vulnerable over the longer term. In 2022, another Science paper estimated that almost no mountain glaciers could survive once warming crosses 2 °C (3.6 °F). Their complete loss is largely inevitable around 3 °C (5.4 °F). There is even a possibility of complete loss after 2100 at just 1.5 °C (2.7 °F). This could happen as early as 50 years after the tipping point is crossed, although 200 years is the most likely value, and the maximum is around 1000 years.<br>Sea ice loss[edit]<br>Sea ice loss contributes very slightly to global sea level rise. If the melt water from ice floating in the sea was exactly the same as sea water then, according to Archimedes' principle, no rise would occur. However melted sea ice contains less dissolved salt than sea water and is therefore less dense, with a slightly greater volume per unit of mass. If all floating ice shelves and icebergs were to melt sea level would only rise by about 4 cm (1+1⁄2 in).<br>Trends in land water storage from GRACE observations in gigatons per year, April 2002 to November 2014 (glaciers and ice sheets are excluded).<br>Changes to land water storage[edit]<br><br>See also: Groundwater-related subsidence<br>Human activity impacts how much water is stored on land. Dams retain large quantities of water, which is stored on land rather than flowing into the sea, though the total quantity stored will vary from time to time. On the other hand, humans extract water from lakes, wetlands and underground reservoirs for food production. This often causes subsidence. Furthermore, the hydrological cycle is influenced by climate change and deforestation. This can increase or reduce contributions to sea level rise. In the 20th century, these processes roughly balanced, but dam building has slowed down and is expected to stay low for the 21st century.<br>Water redistribution caused by irrigation from 1993 to 2010 caused a drift of Earth's rotational pole by 78.48 centimetres (30.90 in). This caused groundwater depletion equivalent to a global sea level rise of 6.24 millimetres (0.246 in).


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, beyond_atmosphere/Vertical_pressure_variation5_2.txt
> {\displaystyle z={\frac {T_{0}}{L}}\left(\left({\frac {P}{P_{0}}}\right)^{-{\frac {LR}{g}}}-1\right)}<br><br><br>where<br><br>L is the atmospheric lapse rate (change in temperature divided by distance) = −6.5×10−3 K/m, and<br>T0 is the temperature at the same reference point for which P = P0<br>and the other quantities are the same as those above.  This is the recommended formula to use.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, beyond_atmosphere/Vertical_pressure_variation5_0.txt
> {\displaystyle z=-{\frac {RT}{g}}\ln {\frac {P}{P_{0}}}}<br><br><br>where (with values used in the article)<br><br>z is the elevation in meters,<br>R is the specific gas constant = 287.053 J/(kg K)<br>T is the absolute temperature in kelvins = 288.15 K at sea level,<br>g is the acceleration due to gravity = 9.80665 m/s2 at sea level,<br>P is the pressure at a given point at elevation z in Pasc

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, beyond_atmosphere/Vertical_pressure_variation5_1.txt
> als, and<br>P0 is pressure at the reference point = 101,325 Pa at sea level.<br>A more general formula derived in the same article accounts for a linear change in temperature as a function of height (lapse rate), and reduces to above when the temperature is constant:<br><br><br><br><br>z<br>=<br><br><br><br>T<br><br>0<br><br><br>L<br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br><br>(<br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>0<br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br>L<br>R<br><br>g<br><br><br><br><br>−<br>1<br><br>)

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 8, beyond_atmosphere/atmthick_html4.txt
> mass of the atmosphere.<br>Looking at the chart, we can see that this seems to be about 31 kilometers.<br>The halfway point, where half the mass of the atmosphere<br>is below and half above occurs at 5.5 kilometers.<br>Another interesting fact is that when you are cruising in a modern jet<br>transport at 11 kilometers, you are above 77.5 percent of the atmosphere.<br>The total mass of the atmosphere turns out to be 5.3 zettagrams (5.3 Zg).<br><br>If we say that the thickness of the earth's atmosphere is 31km, we<br>are making a definition based on enclosing 99 percent of its mass.<br>But this is an arbitrary choice.<br>If we define the thickness as enclosing 99.9 percent of the mass, the<br>answer is 42km.<br><br>Another method for establishing this value is to compare the orbits of <br>objects entering the earth's atmosphere, either natural or man-made.<br>At high altitudes, the tracks are indistinguishable from Keplerian orbits<br>for a body in vacuum. <br>Below a certain height, the paths differ from the vacuum orbits.<br>This height seems to be around 75 kilometers.<br>When the X-prize people were making the rules for the contest for putting a<br>manned craft into space, they rounded it to 100 km.<br>If you demand that the particle count per cubic meter be indistinguishable<br>from the density of the solar wind in the vicinity of the earth's orbit,<br>you have to go to something like 1000 km.<br>Certainly it is apparent that the thickness of the atmosphere is quite<br>small compared to the diameter of the earth.

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 69, beyond_atmosphere/Vertical_pressure_variation4.txt
> {\displaystyle P_{1}=P_{0}-\rho g(h_{1}-h_{0})}<br><br><br>where h1 - h0 is the vertical distance between the two points.[2]<br>Where different fluids are layered on top of one another, the total pressure difference would be obtained by adding the two pressure differences; the first being from point 1 to the boundary, the second being from the boundary to point 2; which would just involve substituting the ρ and Δh values for each fluid and taking the sum of the results. If the density of the fluid varies with height, mathematical integration would be required.<br>Whether or not density and gravity can be reasonably approximated as constant depends on the level of accuracy needed, but also on the length scale of height difference, as gravity and density also decrease with higher elevation. For density in particular, the fluid in question is also relevant; seawater, for example, is considered an incompressible fluid; its density can vary with height, but much less significantly than that of air.  Thus water's density can be more reasonably approximated as constant than that of air, and given the same height difference, the pressure differences in water are approximately equal at any height.<br><br>Hydrostatic paradox[edit]<br>Diagram illustrating the hydrostatic paradox<br>The barometric formula depends only on the height of the fluid chamber, and not on its width or length.  Given a large enough height, any pressure may be attained. This feature of hydrostatics has been called the hydrostatic paradox. As expressed by W. H. Besant,[3]<br><br>Any quantity of liquid, however small, may be made to support any weight, however large.<br>The Flemish scientist Simon Stevin was the first to explain the paradox mathematically.[4] In 1916 Richard Glazebrook mentioned the hydrostatic paradox as he described an arrangement he attributed to Pascal: a heavy weight W rests on a board with area A resting on a fluid bladder connected to a vertical tube with cross-sectional area α. Pouring water of weight w down the tube will eventually raise the heavy weight. Balance of forces leads to the equation<br><br><br><br><br><br>W<br>=<br><br><br><br>w<br>A<br><br>α<br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle W={\frac {wA}{\alpha }}.}<br><br><br>Glazebrook says, "By making the area of the board considerable and that of the tube small, a large weight W can be supported by a small weight w of water. This fact is sometimes described as the hydrostatic paradox."[5]<br>Hydraulic machinery employs this phenomenon to multiply force or torque. Demonstrations of the hydrostatic paradox are used in teaching the phenomenon.[6][7]<br><br>In the context of Earth's atmosphere[edit]<br>Main article: Barometric formula<br>If one is to analyze the vertical pressure variation of the atmosphere of Earth, the length scale is very significant (troposphere alone being several kilometres tall; thermosphere being several hundred kilometres) and the involved fluid (air) is compressible. Gravity can still be reasonably approximated as constant, because length scales on the order of kilometres are still small in comparison to Earth's radius, which is on average about 6371 km,[8] and gravity is a function of distance from Earth's core.[9]<br>Density, on the other hand, varies more significantly with height. It follows from the ideal gas law that<br><br><br><br><br>ρ<br>=<br><br><br><br>m<br>P<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \rho ={\frac {mP}{kT}},}<br><br><br>where<br><br>m is average mass per air molecule,<br>P is pressure at a given point,<br>k is the Boltzmann constant,<br>T is the temperature in kelvins.<br>Put more simply, air density depends on air pressure. Given that air pressure also depends on air density, it would be easy to get the impression that this was circular definition, but it is simply interdependency of different variables. This then yields a more accurate formula, of the form<br><br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>h<br><br><br>=<br><br>P<br><br>0<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>−<br><br><br><br>m<br>g<br>h<br><br><br>k<br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P_{h}=P_{0}e^{-{\frac {mgh}{kT}}},}<br><br><br>where<br><br>Ph is the pressure at height h,<br>P0 is the pressure at reference point 0 (typically referring to sea level),<br>m is the mass per air molecule,<br>g is the acceleration due to gravity,<br>h is height from reference point 0,<br>k is the Boltzmann constant,<br>T is the temperature in kelvins.<br>Therefore, instead of pressure being a linear function of height as one might expect from the more simple formula given in the "basic formula" section, it is more accurately represented as an exponential function of height.<br>Note that in this simplification, the temperature is treated as constant, even though temperature also varies with height. However, the temperature variation within the lower layers of the atmosphere (troposphere, stratosphere) is only in the dozens of degrees, as opposed to their thermodynamic temperature, which is in the hundreds, so the temperature variation is reasonably small and is thus ignored. For smaller height differences, including those from top to bottom of even the tallest of buildings, (like the CN tower) or for mountains of comparable size, the temperature variation will easily be within the single-digits. (See also lapse rate.)<br>An alternative derivation, shown by the Portland State Aerospace Society,[10] is used to give height as a function of pressure instead. This may seem counter-intuitive, as pressure results from height rather than vice versa, but such a formula can be useful in finding height based on pressure difference when one knows the latter and not the former. Different formulas are presented for different kinds of approximations; for comparison with the previous formula, the first referenced from the article will be the one applying the same constant-temperature approximation; in which case:<br><br><br><br><br>z<br>=<br>−<br><br><br><br>R<br>T<br><br>g<br><br><br>ln<br>⁡<br><br><br>P<br><br>P<br><br>0

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, beyond_atmosphere/atmthick_html3.txt
> alt (km)m (Zg)m/m(infinity)<br>000<br>21.1350.2147<br>52.4610.4655<br>103.8990.7376<br>154.6530.8801<br>204.9990.9455<br>255.1560.9752<br>305.2280.9888<br>355.2610.9950<br>405.2760.9979<br>455.2830.9993<br>505.2871.0000<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Using boundary layer theory as an example, we can define the thickness<br>of the atmosphere to be the altitude that encloses 99 percent of the total

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, beyond_atmosphere/Vertical_pressure_variation3.txt
> Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Variation in pressure as a function of elevation<br>Vertical pressure variation is the variation in pressure as a function of elevation. Depending on the fluid in question and the context being referred to, it may also vary significantly in dimensions perpendicular to elevation as well, and these variations have relevance in the context of pressure gradient force and its effects. However, the vertical variation is especially significant, as it results from the pull of gravity on the fluid; namely, for the same given fluid, a decrease in elevation within it corresponds to a taller column of fluid weighing down on that point.<br><br><br>Basic formula[edit]<br>A relatively simple version [1] of the vertical fluid pressure variation is simply that the pressure difference between two elevations is the product of elevation change, gravity, and density. The equation is as follows:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br>P<br><br><br>d<br>h<br><br><br><br>=<br>−<br>ρ<br>g<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\frac {dP}{dh}}=-\rho g,}<br><br><br>where<br><br>P is pressure,<br>ρ is density,<br>g is acceleration of gravity, and<br>h is height.<br>The delta symbol indicates a change in a given variable. Since g is negative, an increase in height will correspond to a decrease in pressure, which fits with the previously mentioned reasoning about the weight of a column of fluid.<br>When density and gravity are approximately constant (that is, for relatively small changes in height), simply multiplying height difference, gravity, and density will yield a good approximation of pressure difference. If the pressure at one point in a liquid with uniform density ρ is known to be P0, then the pressure at another point is P1:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br>1<br><br><br>=<br><br>P<br><br>0<br><br><br>−<br>ρ<br>g<br>(<br><br>h<br><br>1<br><br><br>−<br><br>h<br><br>0<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle P_{1}=P_{0}-\rho g(h_{1}-h_{0})}

### GROUND TRUTH 7, ranked 0, beyond_atmosphere/atmthick_html2.txt
> never quite goes to zero.<br>Similar questions are: "How long does it take for a capacitor to discharge?"<br>or "How long does it take for radioactive material to decay?".<br>These are all examples of asymptotic behavior.<br>But, much in the same way that we make a definition that allows us to<br>speak of the thickness of a boundary layer in viscous fluid flow, we can<br>give a definition of the thickness of the atmosphere that satisfies our<br>engineering needs.<br><br><br>To make this estimation, the first thing to do is to compute the mass<br>distribution of the atmosphere.<br>For a given altitude, define m(alt) to be the total mass of air from<br>sea level up to alt over the entire earth.<br>This is simply a matter of integrating the density of the atmosphere<br>over the volume between a sphere of radius E and a sphere of radius alt+E,<br>where E is the radius of the earth.<br>You may examine my page that describes the numerical details of<br>performing this numerical integration.<br>PDF, 44KB.<br><br><br>The results of this computation are shown in the table and chart below.<br>Note that m is given in zettagrams. One zettagram = 1021 grams = 1 Zg.<br>Zetta is the prefix for 1021, just as we use peta for 1015 and tera for 1012,<br>and Z stands for zetta when combining with an abbreviated unit such as g for gram.
