# Query `58`

## Original Question

*I would like to calculate the latitude values of a Gaussian Grid of a size of my choosing. Unfortunately, I didn't find a method or a formula to do so. Where can I find this information? Alternatively, is there a function publicly available that can do the job?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) gaussian_grid/gaussian3_6.txt
> .chk residing in the current working directory. If disk space in the scratch directory is not big enough but space is available elsewise on the system, you can specify an alternate directory location and checkpoint filename as:<br>%Chk=/tmp/gaussian/water<br>A full list of Link 0 commands is available at http://gaussian.com/link0/ for your reference.<br>(B) Submit Gaussian jobs<br>Gaussian simulations can only be executed as batch jobs via submitting to the SLURM queuing system. To allow easy use of Gaussian, we have prepared

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) gaussian_grid/gaussian3_8.txt
> Gaussian version/revision.<br>Running Gaussian in SMP mode (in single node)<br>Gaussian can be executed using all cores in the same node for speed up. This would be best choice as light-weighted threads running at multi-cores and the inter-thread communication is extremely fast. In order to do this, you must specify the request of number of cores of the node by editing the job script.<br>All cores in the node will participate in the calculation, with the data communication carried out through the shared memory.<br><br><br><br>HPC System<br>Queue/

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) gaussian_grid/Reduced+Gaussian+Grids5_3.txt
> is chosen so that the local east-west grid length remains approximately constant for all latitudes, with the restriction that the number should be suitable for the Fast Fourier Transform used to interpolate spectral fields to grid point fields, ie number = 2^p  3^q  5^r.It is possible to supply a gaussian grid definition. The latitude values defining the grid can be changed or the number of points along each latitude can be specfified, or both, as long as the resulting grid definition is self-consistent. The gaussian latitudes may be given as an

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) annual_harmonics/Pythagorean_triple3_21.txt
> ratic forms. They are closely related to (but are not equal to) reflections generating the orthogonal group of x2 + y2 − z2 over the integers.[31]<br><br>Relation to Gaussian integers[edit]<br>Alternatively, Euclid's formulae can be analyzed and proved using the Gaussian integers.[32] Gaussian integers are complex numbers of the form α = u + vi, where u and v are ordinary integers and i is the square root of negative one. The units of Gaussian integers are ±1 and ±i. The ordinary integers are

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) ncdc_data/index_php_topic_19101_04_10.txt
> Is it trivial to do? Not in my book. Would it break backwards compatibility? Totally.I agree  - it's a shame that the original design didn't allow for 2-byte values here - at a minimum it would eliminate this sort of rather pointless debate. But they didn't.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>								Logged<br><br>							<br>Prodata Weather SystemsProdata's FAQ/support site for Davis stationsIncludes many details on 6313 Weatherlink console.UK Davis Premier Dealer - All Davis stations, accessories and spares


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, gaussian_grid/gaus_shtml3.txt
> Popular Links<br><br>.hluresfile<br>Color Tables<br>Font Tables<br>Error Messages<br>Dash Pattern Table<br>Fill Pattern Table<br>Marker Table<br>Map Projections<br>High Resolution Map Database<br>Editor Enhancements<br>ncl_convert2nc<br>ncl_filedump<br>Tools<br>WRAPIT<br><br><br><br>What's New<br><br>Announcements<br>In Latest Release<br>In Application Examples<br>In Next Release<br>In Previous Releases<br><br><br><br>Support<br><br>Email Lists<br>Editor enhancements<br>Error messages<br>Manuals<br>NCL on Cheyenne<br>Training<br>Webinars<br>Workshops<br>Documentation<br>FAQ<br>Uploading files via ftp<br>Report Bugs<br><br><br><br>External<br><br>NCL on Cheyenne<br>Climate Data Guide<br>Climate Data Operators<br>Earth System Modeling Framework<br>NetCDF Operators<br>PyNGL<br>PyNIO

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, gaussian_grid/gaus_shtml2.txt
> Examples<br><br>All Examples<br>Templates<br>File I/O<br>Datasets<br>Maps<br>Models<br>Data Analysis<br>Plot Types<br>Plot Techniques<br>Special Plots<br>Non-uniform Grids<br>Miscellaneous<br><br><br><br>Functions<br><br>Alphabetical Listing<br>Category Listing<br>Function-Type Listing<br><br><br><br>Resources<br><br>Complete Listing<br>am (annotation manager)<br>app (app)<br>ca (coordinate array)<br>cn (contour)<br>ct (coordinate array table)<br>dc (data comm)<br>err (error)<br>gs (graphics styles)<br>gsn (gsn high-level interfaces)<br>lb (label bar)<br>lg (legends)<br>mp (maps)<br>pm (plot manager)<br>pr (primitives)<br>sf (scalar field)<br>st (streamline)<br>tf (transform)<br>ti (title)<br>tm (tickmark)<br>tr (transformation)<br>tx (text)<br>vc (vectors)<br>vf (vector field)<br>vp (view port)<br>wk (workstation)<br>ws (workspace)<br>xy (xy plots)
