# Query `61`

## Original Question

*Someone I know posted a question about climate change that I do not know how to answer. While I do believe (for lack of better word) in climate change, I do not know how to answer this persons question. The tl;dr of the question is:

If climate change is not a natural phenomenon, then how did the last ice age end?

The person is implying that warming/cooling reoccurs periodically on the Earth, and that the current climate change threat is overblown.

I have searched online for answers, but cannot find anything concise on this specific subject. According to this wikipedia article,

There is evidence that greenhouse gas levels fell at the start of ice ages and rose during the retreat of the ice sheets, but it is difficult to establish cause and effect (see the notes above on the role of weathering). Greenhouse gas levels may also have been affected by other factors which have been proposed as causes of ice ages, such as the movement of continents and volcanism.

In short, how and why did the last ice ages end? I am assuming that the carbon dioxide concentration during these ice ages is much lower than the current estimate of ~410 ppm. Aside from the difference in carbon dioxide levels, what evidence suggests that the climate change of today is different than the climate change that ended the ice age(s)?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.2500
recall_50: 0.2500
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0976
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0976
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0976
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0167
map_cut_50: 0.0167
map_cut_100: 0.0167
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) difference_in_climate_change/Ice_age3_45.txt
> , but it is difficult to establish cause and effect (see the notes above on the role of weathering). Greenhouse gas levels may also have been affected by other factors which have been proposed as causes of ice ages, such as the movement of continents and volcanism.<br>The Snowball Earth hypothesis maintains that the severe freezing in the late Proterozoic was ended by an increase in CO2 levels in the atmosphere, mainly from volcanoes, and some supporters of Snowball Earth argue that it was caused in the first place by a reduction in atmospheric CO2. The hypothesis also warns of future

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) difference_in_climate_change/Ice_age3_44.txt
> Raymo, William Ruddiman and others propose that the Tibetan and Colorado Plateaus are immense CO2 "scrubbers" with a capacity to remove enough CO2 from the global atmosphere to be a significant causal factor of the 40 million year Cenozoic Cooling trend. They further claim that approximately half of their uplift (and CO2 "scrubbing" capacity) occurred in the past 10 million years.[64][65]<br><br>Changes in Earth's atmosphere<br>There is evidence that greenhouse gas levels fell at the start of ice ages and rose during the retreat of the ice sheets

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) difference_in_climate_change/Ice_age3_64.txt
> of the Little Ice Age.<br>The long-term increase in the Sun's output cannot be a cause of ice ages.<br><br>Volcanism<br>Volcanic eruptions may have contributed to the inception and/or the end of ice age periods. At times during the paleoclimate, carbon dioxide levels were two or three times greater than today. Volcanoes and movements in continental plates contributed to high amounts of CO2 in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide from volcanoes probably contributed to periods with highest overall temperatures.[86] One suggested explanation of the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum is

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) vicous_climate_change/Climate_change_feedbacks4.txt
> part4 -------------------<br>Positive feedbacks through other mechanisms[edit]<br><br>See also: Soil carbon feedback<br>Water vapor feedback[edit]<br><br>Main article: Water vapor feedback<br>If the atmospheres are warmed, the saturation vapor pressure increases, and the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere will tend to increase. Since water vapor is a greenhouse gas, the increase in water vapor content makes the atmosphere warm further; this warming causes the atmosphere to hold still more water vapor (a positive feedback), and so on until other processes stop the feedback loop. The result is a much larger greenhouse effect than that due to CO2 alone. Although this feedback process causes an increase in the absolute moisture content of the air, the relative humidity stays nearly constant or even decreases slightly because the air is warmer.  Climate models incorporate this feedback. Water vapor feedback is strongly positive, with most evidence supporting a magnitude of 1.5 to 2.0 W/m/K, sufficient  to roughly double the warming that would otherwise occur. Water vapor feedback is considered a faster feedback mechanism.<br>Cloud feedback[edit]<br><br>Main article: Cloud feedback<br>Global warming is expected to change the distribution and type of clouds. Seen from below, clouds emit infrared radiation back to the surface, and so exert a warming effect; seen from above, clouds reflect sunlight and emit infrared radiation to space, and so exert a cooling effect. Whether the net effect is warming or cooling depends on details such as the type and altitude of the cloud. Low clouds are brighter and optically thicker, while high clouds are optically thin (transparent) in the visible and trap IR. Reduction of low clouds tends to increase incoming solar radiation and therefore have a positive feedback, while a reduction in high clouds (since they mostly just trap IR) would result in a negative feedback. These details were poorly observed before the advent of satellite data and are difficult to represent in climate models. Global climate models were showing a near-zero to moderately strong positive net cloud feedback, but the effective climate sensitivity has increased substantially in the latest generation of global climate models. Differences in the physical representation of clouds in models drive this enhanced climate sensitivity relative to the previous generation of models.<br>A 2019 simulation predicts that if greenhouse gases reach three times the current level of atmospheric carbon dioxide that stratocumulus clouds could abruptly disperse, contributing to additional global warming.<br>Ice–albedo feedback[edit]<br><br>Main articles: Arctic sea ice decline and Ice–albedo feedback<br>Aerial photograph showing a section of sea ice. The lighter blue areas are melt ponds and the darkest areas are open water; both have a lower albedo than the white sea ice. The melting ice contributes to ice–albedo feedback.<br>When ice melts, land or open water takes its place. Both land and open water are on average less reflective than ice and thus absorb more solar radiation. This causes more warming, which in turn causes more melting, and this cycle continues.  During times of global cooling, additional ice increases the reflectivity, which reduces the absorption of solar radiation, resulting in more cooling through a continuing cycle.  This is considered a faster feedback mechanism.<br>1870–2009 Northern hemisphere sea ice extent in million square kilometers. Blue shading indicates the pre-satellite era; data then is less reliable. In particular, the near-constant level extent in Autumn up to 1940 reflects lack of data rather than a real lack of variation.<br>Albedo change is also the main reason why IPCC predict polar temperatures in the northern hemisphere to rise up to twice as much as those of the rest of the world, in a process known as polar amplification. In September 2007, the Arctic sea ice area reached about half the size of the average summer minimum area between 1979 and 2000. Also in September 2007, Arctic sea ice retreated far enough for the Northwest Passage to become navigable to shipping for the first time in recorded history. The record losses of 2007 and 2008 may, however, be temporary.<br>Mark Serreze of the US National Snow and Ice Data Center views 2030 as a "reasonable estimate" for when the summertime Arctic ice cap might be ice-free. The polar amplification of global warming is not predicted to occur in the southern hemisphere. The Antarctic sea ice reached its greatest extent on record since the beginning of observation in 1979, but the gain in ice in the south is exceeded by the loss in the north. The trend for global sea ice, northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere combined is clearly a decline.<br>Ice loss may have internal feedback processes, as melting of ice over land can cause eustatic sea level rise, potentially causing instability of ice shelves and inundating coastal ice masses, such as glacier tongues.  Further, a potential feedback cycle exists due to earthquakes caused by isostatic rebound further destabilising ice shelves, glaciers and ice caps.<br>The ice–albedo in some sub-arctic forests is also changing, as stands of larch (which shed their needles in winter, allowing sunlight to reflect off the snow in spring and fall) are being replaced by spruce trees (which retain their dark needles all year).<br>Gas release by various sources[edit]<br><br>Main article: Greenhouse gas<br>Release of gases of biological origin may be affected by global warming, but research into such effects is at an early stage. Some of these gases, such as nitrous oxide released from peat or thawing permafrost, directly affect climate. Others, such as dimethyl sulfide released from oceans, have indirect effects.<br>A 2010 study suggested that if global methane emissions were to increase by a factor of 2.5 to 5.2 above (then) current emissions, the indirect contribution to radiative forcing would be about 250% and 400% respectively, of the forcing that can be directly attributed to methane. This amplification of methane warming is due to projected changes in atmospheric chemistry.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) sea_level_and_ele/Post_glacial_rebound3.txt
> From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Rise of land masses after glacial period<br>A model of present-day mass change due to post-glacial rebound and the reloading of the ocean basins with seawater. Blue and purple areas indicate rising due to the removal of the ice sheets. Yellow and red areas indicate falling as mantle material moved away from these areas in order to supply the rising areas, and because of the collapse of the forebulges around the ice sheets.<br>This layered beach at Bathurst Inlet, Nunavut is an example of post-glacial rebound after the last Ice Age.  Little to no tide  helped to form its layer-cake look. Isostatic rebound is still underway here.<br>Post-glacial rebound (also called isostatic rebound or crustal rebound) is the rise of land masses after the removal of the huge weight of ice sheets during the last glacial period, which had caused isostatic depression. Post-glacial rebound and isostatic depression are phases of glacial isostasy (glacial isostatic adjustment, glacioisostasy), the  deformation of the Earth's crust in response to changes in ice mass distribution.[1] The direct raising effects of post-glacial rebound are readily apparent in parts of Northern Eurasia, Northern America, Patagonia, and Antarctica. However, through the processes of ocean siphoning and continental levering, the effects of post-glacial rebound on sea level are felt globally far from the locations of current and former ice sheets.[2]<br><br><br>Overview[edit]<br>Changes in the elevation of Lake Superior due to glaciation and post-glacial rebound<br>During the last glacial period, much of northern Europe, Asia, North America, Greenland and Antarctica was covered by ice sheets, which reached up to three kilometres thick during the glacial maximum about 20,000 years ago.  The enormous weight of this ice caused the surface of the Earth's crust to deform and warp downward, forcing the viscoelastic mantle material to flow away from the loaded region.  At the end of each glacial period when the glaciers retreated, the removal of this weight led to slow (and still ongoing) uplift or rebound of the land and the return flow of mantle material back under the deglaciated area.  Due to the extreme viscosity of the mantle, it will take many thousands of years for the land to reach an equilibrium level.<br>The uplift has taken place in two distinct stages.  The initial uplift following deglaciation was almost immediate due to the elastic response of the crust as the ice load was removed.  After this elastic phase, uplift proceeded by slow viscous flow at an exponentially decreasing rate.[citation needed]  Today, typical uplift rates are of the order of 1 cm/year or less. In northern Europe, this is clearly shown by the GPS data obtained by the BIFROST GPS network;[3] for example in Finland, the total area of the country is growing by about seven square kilometers per year.[4][5] Studies suggest that rebound will continue for at least another 10,000 years.  The total uplift from the end of deglaciation depends on the local ice load and could be several hundred metres near the centre of rebound.<br>Recently, the term "post-glacial rebound" is gradually being replaced by the term "glacial isostatic adjustment". This is in recognition that the response of the Earth to glacial loading and unloading is not limited to the upward rebound movement, but also involves downward land movement, horizontal crustal motion,[3][6] changes in global sea levels[7] and the Earth's gravity field,[8] induced earthquakes,[9] and changes in the Earth's rotation.[10] Another alternate term is "glacial isostasy", because the uplift near the centre of rebound is due to the tendency towards the restoration of isostatic equilibrium (as in the case of isostasy of mountains). Unfortunately, that term gives the wrong impression that isostatic equilibrium is somehow reached, so by appending "adjustment" at the end, the motion of restoration is emphasized.<br><br>Effects[edit]<br>Post-glacial rebound produces measurable effects on vertical crustal motion, global sea levels, horizontal crustal motion, gravity field, Earth's rotation, crustal stress, and earthquakes. Studies of glacial rebound give us information about the flow law of mantle rocks, which is important to the study of mantle convection, plate tectonics and the thermal evolution of the Earth.  It also gives insight into past ice sheet history, which is important to glaciology, paleoclimate, and changes in global sea level. Understanding postglacial rebound is also important to our ability to monitor recent global change.<br><br>Vertical crustal motion[edit]<br>The elastic behavior of the lithosphere and mantle, illustrating subsidence of the crust with respect to landscape properties as a result of the downward force of a glacier ("Before"), and the effects that melting and glacial retreat have on the rebound of the mantle and lithosphere in ("After").<br>Much of modern Finland is former seabed or archipelago: illustrated are sea levels immediately after the last ice age.<br>Erratic boulders, U-shaped valleys, drumlins, eskers, kettle lakes, bedrock striations are among the common signatures of the Ice Age. In addition, post-glacial rebound has caused numerous significant changes to coastlines and landscapes over the last several thousand years, and the effects continue to be significant.<br>In Sweden, Lake Mälaren was formerly an arm of the Baltic Sea, but uplift eventually cut it off and led to its becoming a freshwater lake in about the 12th century, at the time when Stockholm was founded at its outlet. Marine seashells found in Lake Ontario sediments imply a similar event in prehistoric times. Other pronounced effects can be seen on the island of Öland, Sweden, which has little topographic relief due to the presence of the very level Stora Alvaret.  The rising land has caused the Iron Age settlement area to recede from the Baltic Sea, making the present day villages on the west coast set back unexpectedly far from the shore.  These effects are quite dramatic at the village of Alby, for example, where the Iron Age inhabitants were known to subsist on substantial coastal fishing.<br>As a result of post-glacial rebound, the Gulf of Bothnia is predicted to eventually close up at Kvarken in more than 2,000 years.[11] The Kvarken is a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site, selected as a "type area" illustrating the effects of post-glacial rebound and the holocene glacial retreat.<br>In several other Nordic ports, like Tornio and Pori (formerly at Ulvila), the harbour has had to be relocated several times. Place names in the coastal regions also illustrate the rising land: there are inland places named 'island', 'skerry', 'rock', 'point' and 'sound'. For example, Oulunsalo "island of Oulujoki"[12] is a peninsula, with inland names such as Koivukari "Birch Rock", Santaniemi "Sandy Cape", and Salmioja "the brook of the Sound". (Compare  [1] and [2].)<br><br>Map of Post Glacial Rebound effects upon the land-level of Ireland and the British Isles.<br>In Great Britain, glaciation affected Scotland but not southern England, and the post-glacial rebound of northern Great Britain (up to 10 cm per century) is causing a corresponding downward movement of the southern half of the island (up to 5 cm per century). This will eventually lead to an increased risk of floods in southern England and south-western Ireland.[13]<br>Since the glacial isostatic adjustment process causes the land to move relative to the sea, ancient shorelines are found to lie above present day sea level in areas that were once glaciated. On the other hand, places in the peripheral bulge area which was uplifted during glaciation now begins to subside. Therefore, ancient beaches are found below present day sea level in the bulge area. The "relative sea level data", which consists of height and age measurements of the ancient beaches around the world,  tells us that glacial isostatic adjustment proceeded at a higher rate near the end of deglaciation than today.<br>The present-day uplift motion in northern Europe is also monitored by a GPS network called BIFROST.[3][14][15] Results of GPS data show a peak rate of about 11 mm/year in the north part of the Gulf of Bothnia, but this uplift rate decreases away and becomes negative outside the former ice margin.<br>In the near field outside the former ice margin, the land sinks relative to the sea. This is the case along the east coast of the United States, where ancient beaches are found submerged below present day sea level and Florida is expected to be submerged in the future.[7] GPS data in North America also confirms that land uplift becomes subsidence outside the former ice margin.[6]<br><br>Global sea levels[edit]<br>To form the ice sheets of the last Ice Age, water from the oceans evaporated, condensed as snow and was deposited as ice in high latitudes. Thus global sea level fell during glaciation.<br>The ice sheets at the last glacial maximum were so massive that global sea level fell by about 120 metres. Thus continental shelves were exposed and many islands became connected with the continents through dry land. This was the case between the British Isles and Europe (Doggerland), or between Taiwan, the Indonesian islands and Asia (Sundaland). A land bridge also existed between Siberia and Alaska that allowed the migration of people and animals during the last glacial maximum.[7]<br>The fall in sea level also affects the circulation of ocean currents and thus has important impact on climate during the glacial maximum.<br>During deglaciation, the melted ice water returns to the oceans, thus sea level in the ocean increases again. However, geological records of sea level changes show that the redistribution of the melted ice water is not the same everywhere in the oceans. In other words, depending upon the location, the rise in sea level at a certain site may be more than that at another site. This is due to the gravitational attraction between the mass of the melted water and the other masses, such as remaining ice sheets, glaciers, water masses and mantle rocks[7] and the changes in centrifugal potential due to Earth's variable rotation.[16]<br><br>Horizontal crustal motion[edit]<br>Accompanying vertical motion is the horizontal motion of the crust. The BIFROST GPS network[15] shows that the motion diverges from the centre of rebound.[3] However, the largest horizontal velocity is found near the former ice margin.<br>The situation in North America is less certain; this is due to the sparse distribution of GPS stations in northern Canada, which is rather inaccessible.[6]<br><br>Tilt[edit]<br>The combination of horizontal and vertical motion changes the tilt of the surface. That is, locations farther north rise faster, an effect that becomes apparent in lakes. The bottoms of the lakes gradually tilt away from the direction of the former ice maximum, such that lake shores on the side of the maximum (typically north) recede and the opposite (southern) shores sink.[17] This causes the formation of new rapids and rivers. For example, Lake Pielinen in <br>Finland, which is large (90 x 30 km) and oriented perpendicularly to the former ice margin, originally drained through an outlet in the middle of the lake near Nunnanlahti to Lake Höytiäinen. The change of tilt caused Pielinen to burst through the Uimaharju esker at the southwestern end of the lake, creating a new river (Pielisjoki) that runs to the sea via Lake Pyhäselkä to Lake Saimaa.[18] The effects are similar to that concerning seashores, but occur above sea level. Tilting of land will also affect the flow of water in lakes and rivers in the future, and thus is important for water resource management planning.<br>In Sweden Lake Sommen's outlet in the northwest has a rebound of 2.36 mm/a while in the eastern Svanaviken it is 2.05 mm/a. This means the lake is being slowly tilted and the southeastern shores drowned.[19]<br><br>Gravity field[edit]<br>Ice, water, and mantle rocks have mass, and as they move around, they exert a gravitational pull on other masses towards them. Thus, the gravity field, which is sensitive to all mass on the surface and within the Earth, is affected by the redistribution of ice/melted water on the surface of the Earth and the flow of mantle rocks within.[20]<br>Today, more than 6000 years after the last deglaciation terminated, the flow of mantle material back to the glaciated area causes the overall shape of the Earth to become less oblate. This change in the topography of Earth's surface affects the long-wavelength components of the gravity field.[21]<br>The changing gravity field can be detected by repeated land measurements with absolute gravimeters and recently by the GRACE satellite mission.[22]  The change in long-wavelength components of Earth's gravity field also perturbs the orbital motion of satellites and has been detected by LAGEOS satellite motion.[23]<br><br>Vertical datum[edit]<br>The vertical datum is a reference surface for altitude measurement and plays vital roles in many human activities, including land surveying and construction of buildings and bridges.  Since postglacial rebound continuously deforms the crustal surface and the gravitational field, the vertical datum needs to be redefined repeatedly through time.<br><br>State of stress, intraplate earthquakes and volcanism[edit]<br>According to the theory of plate tectonics, plate-plate interaction results in earthquakes near plate boundaries. However, large earthquakes are found in intraplate environment like eastern Canada (up to M7) and northern Europe (up to M5) which are far away from present-day plate boundaries. An important intraplate earthquake was the magnitude 8 New Madrid earthquake that occurred in mid-continental US in the year 1811.<br>Glacial loads provided more than 30 MPa of vertical stress in northern Canada and more than 20 MPa in northern Europe during glacial maximum. This vertical stress is supported by the mantle and the flexure of the lithosphere. Since the mantle and the lithosphere continuously respond to the changing ice and water loads, the state of stress at any location continuously changes in time. The changes in the orientation of the state of stress is recorded in the postglacial faults in southeastern Canada.[24] When the postglacial faults formed at the end of deglaciation 9000 years ago, the horizontal principal stress orientation was almost perpendicular to the former ice margin, but today the orientation is in the northeast–southwest, along the direction of seafloor spreading at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. This shows that the stress due to postglacial rebound had played an important role at deglacial time, but has gradually relaxed so that tectonic stress has become more dominant today.<br>According to the Mohr–Coulomb theory of  rock failure, large glacial loads generally suppress earthquakes, but  rapid deglaciation promotes earthquakes. According to Wu & Hasagawa, the rebound stress that is available to trigger earthquakes today is of the order of 1 MPa.[25] This stress level is not large enough to rupture intact rocks but is large enough to reactivate pre-existing faults that are close to failure. Thus, both postglacial rebound and past tectonics play important roles in today's intraplate earthquakes in eastern Canada and southeast US.  Generally postglacial rebound stress could have triggered the intraplate earthquakes in eastern Canada and may have played some role in triggering earthquakes in the eastern US including the New Madrid earthquakes of 1811.[9] The situation in northern Europe today is complicated by the current tectonic activities nearby and by coastal loading and weakening.<br>Increasing pressure due to the weight of the ice during glaciation may have suppressed melt generation and volcanic activities below Iceland and Greenland. On the other hand, decreasing pressure due to deglaciation can increase the melt production and volcanic activities by 20-30 times.[26]<br><br>Recent global warming[edit]<br>Recent global warming has caused mountain glaciers and the ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica to melt and global sea level to rise.[27] Therefore, monitoring sea level rise and the mass balance of ice sheets and glaciers allows people to understand more about global warming.<br>Recent rise in sea levels has been monitored by tide gauges and satellite altimetry (e.g. TOPEX/Poseidon).  As well as the addition of melted ice water from glaciers and ice sheets, recent sea level changes are affected by the thermal expansion of sea water due to global warming,[28] sea level change due to deglaciation of the last glacial maximum (postglacial sea level change), deformation of the land and ocean floor and other factors.  Thus, to understand global warming from sea level change, one must be able to separate all these factors, especially postglacial rebound, since it is one of the leading factors.<br>Mass changes of  ice sheets can be monitored by measuring changes in the ice surface height, the deformation of the ground below and the changes in the gravity field over the ice sheet. Thus ICESat, GPS and GRACE satellite mission are useful for such purpose.[29] However, glacial isostatic adjustment of the ice sheets affect ground deformation and the gravity field today. Thus understanding glacial isostatic adjustment is important in monitoring recent global warming.<br>One of the possible impacts of global warming-triggered rebound may be more volcanic activity in previously ice-capped areas such as Iceland and Greenland.[30] It may also trigger intraplate earthquakes near the ice margins of Greenland and Antarctica.  Unusually rapid (up to 4.1 cm/year) present glacial isostatic rebound due to recent ice mass losses in the Amundsen Sea embayment region of Antarctica coupled with low regional mantle viscosity is predicted to provide a modest stabilizing influence on marine ice sheet instability in West Antarctica, but likely not to a sufficient degree to arrest it.[31]<br><br>Applications[edit]<br>The speed and amount of postglacial rebound is determined by two factors: the viscosity or rheology (i.e., the flow) of the mantle, and the ice loading and unloading histories on the surface of Earth.<br>The viscosity of the mantle is important in understanding mantle convection, plate tectonics, the dynamical processes in Earth, and the thermal state and thermal evolution of Earth. However viscosity is difficult to observe because creep experiments of mantle rocks at natural strain rates would take thousands of years to observe and the ambient temperature and pressure conditions are not easy to attain for a long enough time. Thus, the observations of postglacial rebound provide a natural experiment to measure mantle rheology. Modelling of glacial isostatic adjustment addresses the question of how viscosity changes in the radial[7][32][33] and lateral directions[34] and whether the flow law is linear,  nonlinear,[35] or composite  rheology.[36]  Mantle viscosity may additionally be estimated using seismic tomography, where seismic velocity is used as a proxy observable. [37]<br>Ice thickness histories are useful in the study of paleoclimatology, glaciology and paleo-oceanography. Ice thickness histories are traditionally deduced from the three types of information: First, the sea level data at stable sites far away from the centers of deglaciation give an estimate of how much water entered the oceans or equivalently how much ice was locked up at glacial maximum. Secondly, the location and dates of terminal moraines tell us the areal extent and retreat of past ice sheets. Physics of glaciers gives us the theoretical profile of ice sheets at equilibrium, it also says that the thickness and horizontal extent of equilibrium ice sheets are closely related to the basal condition of the ice sheets. Thus the volume of ice locked up is proportional to their instantaneous area. Finally, the heights of ancient beaches in the sea level data and observed land uplift rates (e.g. from GPS or VLBI) can be used to constrain local ice thickness. A popular ice model deduced this way is the ICE5G model.[38] Because the response of the Earth to changes in ice height is slow, it cannot record rapid fluctuation or surges of ice sheets, thus the ice sheet profiles deduced this way only gives the "average height" over a thousand years or so.[39]<br>Glacial isostatic adjustment also plays an important role in understanding recent global warming and climate change.<br><br>Discovery[edit]<br>Before the eighteenth century, it was thought, in Sweden, that sea levels were falling.  On the initiative of Anders Celsius a number of marks were made in rock on different locations along the Swedish coast.  In 1765 it was possible to conclude that it was not a lowering of sea levels but an uneven rise of land.  In 1865 Thomas Jamieson came up with a theory that the rise of land was connected with the ice age that had been first discovered in 1837.  The theory was accepted after investigations by Gerard De Geer of old shorelines in Scandinavia published in 1890.[40][41][42]<br><br>Legal implications[edit]<br>In areas where the rising of land is seen, it is necessary to define the exact limits of property. In Finland, the "new land" is legally the property of the owner of the water area, not any land owners on the shore. Therefore, if the owner of the land wishes to build a pier over the "new land", they need the permission of the owner of the (former) water area. The landowner of the shore may redeem the new land at market price.[43] Usually the owner of the water area is the partition unit of the landowners of the shores, a collective holding corporation.<br><br>Formulation: sea-level equation[edit]<br>The sea-level equation (SLE) is a linear integral equation that describes the sea-level variations associated with the PGR.<br>The basic idea of the SLE dates back to 1888, when Woodward published his pioneering work on the form and position of mean sea level,[44] and only later has been refined by Platzman [45] and Farrell [46] in the context of the study of the ocean tides. In the words of Wu and Peltier,[47] the solution of the SLE yields the space– and time–dependent change of ocean bathymetry which is required to keep the gravitational potential of the sea surface constant for a specific deglaciation chronology and viscoelastic earth model. The SLE theory was then developed by other authors as Mitrovica & Peltier,[48] Mitrovica et al.[49] and Spada & Stocchi.[50] In its simplest form, the SLE reads<br><br><br><br><br><br>S<br>=<br>N<br>−<br>U<br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S=N-U,}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>S<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S}<br><br>  is the sea–level change, <br><br><br><br>N<br><br><br>{\displaystyle N}<br><br> is the sea surface variation as seen from Earth's center of mass, and <br><br><br><br>U<br><br><br>{\displaystyle U}<br><br> is vertical displacement.<br>In a more explicit form the SLE can be written as follow:<br><br><br><br><br><br>S<br>(<br>θ<br>,<br>λ<br>,<br>t<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br>i<br><br><br>γ<br><br><br><br>G<br><br>s<br><br><br><br>⊗<br><br>i<br><br><br>I<br>+<br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br>w<br><br><br>γ<br><br><br><br>G<br><br>s<br><br><br><br>⊗<br><br>o<br><br><br>S<br>+<br><br>S<br><br>E<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br>i<br><br><br>γ<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>G<br><br>s<br><br><br><br>⊗<br><br>i<br><br><br>I<br><br>¯<br><br><br>−<br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br>w<br><br><br>γ


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 14, difference_in_climate_change/low_res2.txt
> land regions have been warming faster than the global average, for example. This means that warming in<br>many regions has already exceeded 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Over a fifth of the global population live<br>in regions that have already experienced warming in at least one season that is greater than 1.5°C above preindustrial levels.<br>(continued on next page)<br>8<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>FAQ 1.2, Figure 1 | Human-induced warming reached approximately 1°C above pre-industrial levels in 2017. At the present rate, global temperatures would<br>reach 1.5°C around 2040. Stylized 1.5°C pathway shown here involves emission reductions beginning immediately, and CO2 emissions reaching zero by 2055.<br>Current<br>warming rate<br>FAQ1.2:How close are we to 1.5°C?<br>Climate uncertainty<br>for 1.5°C pathway<br>Human-induced<br>warming<br>2017<br>Observed<br>warming<br>Global temperature change<br>relative to 1850-1900 (°C)<br>2.00<br>1.75<br>1.50<br>1.25<br>1.00<br>0.75<br>0.50<br>0.25<br>0.00<br>1960 1980 2000 2020 2040 2060 2080 2100<br>Human-induced warming reached approximately 1°C above<br>pre-industrial levels in 2017<br>FAQ 1.2 (continued)<br>9<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ 2.1 | What Kind of Pathways Limit Warming to 1.5°C and are we on Track?<br>Summary: There is no definitive way to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. This<br>Special Report identifies two main conceptual pathways to illustrate different interpretations. One stabilizes<br>global temperature at, or just below, 1.5°C. Another sees global temperature temporarily exceed 1.5°C before<br>coming back down. Countries’ pledges to reduce their emissions are currently not in line with limiting global<br>warming to 1.5°C.<br>Scientists use computer models to simulate the emissions of greenhouse gases that would be consistent with<br>different levels of warming. The different possibilities are often referred to as ‘greenhouse gas emission<br>pathways’. There is no single, definitive pathway to limiting warming to 1.5°C.<br>This IPCC special report identifies two main pathways that explore global warming of 1.5°C. The first involves<br>global temperature stabilizing at or below before 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. The second pathway sees<br>warming exceed 1.5°C around mid-century, remain above 1.5°C for a maximum duration of a few decades, and<br>return to below 1.5°C before 2100. The latter is often referred to as an ‘overshoot’ pathway. Any alternative<br>situation in which global temperature continues to rise, exceeding 1.5°C permanently until the end of the 21st<br>century, is not considered to be a 1.5°C pathway.<br>The two types of pathway have different implications for greenhouse gas emissions, as well as for climate change<br>impacts and for achieving sustainable development. For example, the larger and longer an ‘overshoot’, the<br>greater the reliance on practices or technologies that remove CO2 from the atmosphere, on top of reducing<br>the sources of emissions (mitigation). Such ideas for CO2 removal have not been proven to work at scale and,<br>therefore, run the risk of being less practical, effective or economical than assumed. There is also the risk that<br>the use of CO2 removal techniques ends up competing for land and water, and if these trade-offs are not<br>appropriately managed, they can adversely affect sustainable development. Additionally, a larger and longer<br>overshoot increases the risk for irreversible climate impacts, such as the onset of the collapse of polar ice shelves<br>and accelerated sea level rise.<br>Countries that formally accept or ‘ratify’ the Paris Agreement submit pledges for how they intend to address<br>climate change. Unique to each country, these pledges are known as Nationally Determined Contributions<br>(NDCs). Different groups of researchers around the world have analysed the combined effect of adding up all<br>the NDCs. Such analyses show that current pledges are not on track to limit global warming to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels. If current pledges for 2030 are achieved but no more, researchers find very few (if any) ways to<br>reduce emissions after 2030 sufficiently quickly to limit warming to 1.5°C. This, in turn, suggests that with the<br>national pledges as they stand, warming would exceed 1.5°C, at least for a period of time, and practices and<br>technologies that remove CO2 from the atmosphere at a global scale would be required to return warming to<br>1.5°C at a later date.<br>A world that is consistent with holding warming to 1.5°C would see greenhouse gas emissions rapidly decline<br>in the coming decade, with strong international cooperation and a scaling up of countries’ combined ambition<br>beyond current NDCs. In contrast, delayed action, limited international cooperation, and weak or fragmented<br>policies that lead to stagnating or increasing greenhouse gas emissions would put the possibility of limiting<br>global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels out of reach.<br>(continued on next page)<br>10<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>FAQ 2.1, Figure 1 | Two main pathways for limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels are discussed in this Special Report. These are:<br>stabilizing global temperature at, or just below, 1.5°C (left) and global temperature temporarily exceeding 1.5°C before coming back down later in the century<br>(right). Temperatures shown are relative to pre-industrial but pathways are illustrative only, demonstrating conceptual not quantitative characteristics.<br>FAQ 2.1 (continued)<br>11<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ 2.2 | What do Energy Supply and Demand have to do with Limiting Warming<br>to 1.5°C?<br>Summary: Limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels would require major reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors. But different sectors are not independent of each other, and making changes<br>in one can have implications for another. For example, if we as a society use a lot of energy, then this could<br>mean we have less flexibility in the choice of mitigation options available to limit warming to 1.5°C. If we use<br>less energy, the choice of possible actions is greater – for example, we could be less reliant on technologies that<br>remove carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere.<br>To stabilize global temperature at any level, ‘net’ CO2 emissions would need to be reduced to zero. This means the<br>amount of CO2 entering the atmosphere must equal the amount that is removed. Achieving a balance between<br>CO2 ‘sources’ and ‘sinks’ is often referred to as ‘net zero’ emissions or ‘carbon neutrality’. The implication of net<br>zero emissions is that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere would slowly decline over time until a new<br>equilibrium is reached, as CO2 emissions from human activity are redistributed and taken up by the oceans and<br>the land biosphere. This would lead to a near-constant global temperature over many centuries.<br>Warming will not be limited to 1.5°C or 2°C unless transformations in a number of areas achieve the required<br>greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Emissions would need to decline rapidly across all of society’s main sectors,<br>including buildings, industry, transport, energy, and agriculture, forestry and other land use (AFOLU). Actions<br>that can reduce emissions include, for example, phasing out coal in the energy sector, increasing the amount of<br>energy produced from renewable sources, electrifying transport, and reducing the ‘carbon footprint’ of the food<br>we consume.<br>The above are examples of ‘supply-side’ actions. Broadly speaking, these are actions that can reduce greenhouse<br>gas emissions through the use of low-carbon solutions. A different type of action can reduce how much energy<br>human society uses, while still ensuring increasing levels of development and well-being. Known as ‘demand-side’<br>actions, this category includes improving energy efficiency in buildings and reducing consumption of energyand greenhouse-gas intensive products through behavioural and lifestyle changes, for example. Demand- and<br>supply-side measures are not an either-or question, they work in parallel with each other. But emphasis can be<br>given to one or the other.<br>Making changes in one sector can have consequences for another, as they are not independent of each other.<br>In other words, the choices that we make now as a society in one sector can either restrict or expand our<br>options later on. For example, a high demand for energy could mean we would need to deploy almost all known<br>options to reduce emissions in order to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, with<br>the potential for adverse side-effects. In particular, a pathway with high energy demand would increase our<br>reliance on practices and technologies that remove CO2 from the atmosphere. As of yet, such techniques have<br>not been proven to work on a large scale and, depending on how they are implemented, could compete for land<br>and water. By leading to lower overall energy demand, effective demand-side measures could allow for greater<br>flexibility in how we structure our energy system. However, demand-side measures are not easy to implement<br>and barriers have prevented the most efficient practices being used in the past.<br>(continued on next page)<br>12<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>FAQ 2.2, Figure 1 | Having a lower energy demand increases the flexibility in choosing options for supplying energy. A larger energy demand means many more<br>low carbon energy supply options would need to be used.<br>FAQ 2.2 (continued)<br>13<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ<br>Frequently Asked Questions<br>FAQ 3.1 | What are the Impacts of 1.5°C and 2°C of Warming?

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, difference_in_climate_change/ripple_effects_population_and_coastal_regions5.txt
> Since 2000, Save the Children has been implementing the People and Environment Coexistence Development Project (PESCO-DEV), working with 12 coastal fishing communities in the Philippines to find ways to balance activities linked to population growth and environmental concerns through participatory research, community mobilization, and pilot projects.<br>The project used a three-stage approach to identify and address population changes that affect fishing in the area. First, the project conducted an environmental site assessment to obtain data on coastal environmental conditions, resource management practices, population dynamics, and community attitudes toward both population and environmental issues. Second, staff used geographic information system maps to compare data on population and land use for the past 50 years. Finally, people from local communities worked with PESCO-DEV to construct three-dimensional maps of their areas to highlight current land-use patterns and environmental resources.<br>These steps allowed PESCO-DEV to collect baseline data and conduct focus-group discussions with local citizens and decisionmakers on the relationship between population and land-use changes, the direction of these changes, and possible steps to address problems. Once they understood that population pressures were increasing sedimentation along the coast and threatening corals and fish, community members began reforestation projects on the coasts and inland and began to encourage the use of family planning services. As a result, the use of modern family planning methods among couples of reproductive age increased by 7 percent in less than two years, and communities decided to increase the size of protected marine areas from 12 to 203 hectares. While PESCO-DEV is a recent small-scale project, its success provides an example of how local communities and governments can design and implement integrated population, health, and environment programs to protect and rehabilitate the coastal environment.1<br>Reference<br><br>R. Layng, “Strengthening Formative Environmental Research Through the Inclusion of Population Variables,” Population-Environment Fellows Newsletter (Winter 2002/2003).<br><br><br>PRB’s Population, Health, and Environment Program disseminates the latest analysis and scientific information on the causes and consequences of critical population, health, and environment linkages, and on the ways that these linkages can be addressed. This information is targeted to those who influence policy, such as policymakers and their advisers, the media, and nongovernmental organizations.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Scroll to top<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>PRB<br><br><br><br><br><br>Contact<br><br>Population Reference Bureau<br>1111 19th St. NW<br>Suite 400<br>Washington, DC 20036<br>Phone: 800-877-9881<br>Email: communications@prb.org<br><br><br><br>Workstyle Serviced Offices<br>The Address Building, 7th floor<br>Muthangari Drive<br>Nairobi, Kenya<br>Phone: +254-735-084293<br>Email: PRBKenya@prb.org<br><br><br><br>Affiliated Sites<br><br>American Community Survey (ACS) Data Users Group<br>Interagency Gender Working Group (IGWG)<br>KidsData<br>MOMENTUM: A Global Partnership for Health and Resilience<br>PACE (Policy, Advocacy, and Communication Enhanced)<br>Population Dynamics Research Centers<br><br><br><br>Subscribe to our Newsletter<br>					    <br><br><br><br>Sign up for our email newsletter<br><br>Sign up for our email newsletter<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Stay Connected<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Facebook<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Twitter <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>LinkedIn <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Youtube <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Privacy Policy & Terms of Service<br>Permissions<br> <br>© 2024 PRB. All Rights Reserved

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, difference_in_climate_change/ripple_effects_population_and_coastal_regions3.txt
> Resource Library<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share                    Share                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Facebook<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Twitter <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>LinkedIn <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>email <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Ripple Effects: Population and Coastal Regions<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Project Details<br><br><br><br>Date<br><br>														September 25, 2003						<br><br><br>Author<br><br><br><br><br>									Liz Creel								<br>Former Population Specialist<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Download<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>"<br>									<br><br><br>Report. Ripple Effects: Population and Coastal Regions<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Focus Area<br><br>Social and Environmental Dimensions of Health<br><br><br>Close<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Coastal regions, areas that are home to a large and growing proportion of the world’s population, are undergoing environmental decline. The problem is particularly acute in developing countries. The reasons for environmental decline are complex, but population factors play a significant role. Today, approximately 3 billion people — about half of the world’s population — live within 200 kilometers of a coastline. By 2025, that figure is likely to double. The high concentration of people in coastal regions has produced many economic benefits, including improved transportation links, industrial and urban development, revenue from tourism, and food production. But the combined effects of booming population growth and economic and technological development are threatening the ecosystems that provide these economic benefits. Unless governments and users of coastal resources take action, population pressures and the associated levels of economic activity will further degrade many coastal habitats.<br>The challenge for policymakers and coastal resource managers is to figure out how to reap the economic benefits of coastal resources while preserving them for future generations. Addressing population issues is key to achieving such balance. This policy brief looks at how population growth, urbanization, and other factors affect coastal resources; how environmental degradation influences people’s lives; and how policymakers can integrate population and resource management issues.<br>Coastal Regions: Benefits and Challenges<br>Because there is no common definition of what constitutes a coastal region, estimates of coastal populations vary. Most are based on an area within 60 to 200 kilometers of the shoreline and may include coastal floodplains, coastal forests called mangroves, marshes, and tideflats (coastal areas affected by the rise and fall of the tide), as well as beaches, dunes, and coral reefs.1 The term “coastal regions” also covers marine fisheries because the bulk of the world’s marine fish harvest is caught or reared in coastal waters.2 Coastal areas help prevent erosion; filter pollutants; and provide food, shelter, breeding areas, and nursery grounds for a wide variety of organisms. Coastal regions also provide critical inputs for industry, including water and space for shipping and ports; opportunities for recreational activities such as fishing and diving; and other raw materials, including salt and sand.<br>In many countries, populations in coastal areas are growing faster than those in noncoastal areas. This is a concern because population growth and the activities associated with it can degrade coastal and marine ecosystems.3 A number of worrying trends are already visible. In some areas, heavy use of fisheries has reduced endemic coastal fish stocks to 10 percent to 30 percent of the supply that existed 30 years ago.4 Half of the world’s wetlands disappeared in the 20th century, as did 50 percent of all mangroves, and nearly 60 percent of the world’s coral reefs are seriously degraded — in some cases beyond recovery — or threatened by development and other human activities.5 Pollution from industry, agriculture, and urban areas is degrading the quality of much of the world’s fresh water. These challenges are particularly acute for island countries, where coasts often comprise the entire territory.6 Such countries may also be threatened by rising sea levels, a possible consequence of climate change.<br>Population Factors’ Effects on Coastal Regions<br>Changes in the size, composition, and distribution of human populations affect coastal regions by changing land use and land cover. Fishing or harvesting, the destruction of mangroves, and pollution and sedimentation from human activities all can affect the coastal environment.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, difference_in_climate_change/ripple_effects_population_and_coastal_regions4.txt
> Population Density <br>The average population density in coastal areas is about 80 persons per square kilometer, twice the world’s average population density.7 Up to 50 percent of the population in northern Africa and Bangladesh lives in coastal areas; along the Nile Delta, the population density reaches 500 to 1,000 people per square kilometer.8 The additional demands that high population density places on the coasts have meant that higher density is associated with increased risks to marine ecosystems. But higher population densities may have beneficial effects as well: As population grows, some governments make greater investments in infrastructure such as sewer lines and sewage treatment plants that ultimately reduce levels of environmental contamination.<br>Migration<br>Migration is a key factor affecting coastal zones. The figures in China and Southeast Asia are staggering: 1,000 people arrive in China’s large coastal cities each day, and similar numbers move to the coasts in Vietnam and the Philippines. The population of Ecuador’s Galapagos Islands has grown rapidly since the early 1980s, largely due to the arrival of coastal fishermen. These fishermen sometimes unknowingly exacerbate a problem created by tankers and ocean liners. By discharging ballast water near the islands, large vessels and smaller fishing boats have introduced nonindigenous plant and animal species to the islands’ coasts.9 The situation in the Galapagos Islands also highlights how migration can contribute to the depletion of natural resources. The arrival of new fishermen, together with the introduction of new fishing techniques and increased access to credit and markets, has contributed to the overexploitation of sea cucumbers in the region.10<br>Urbanization <br>Many of the world’s coasts are becoming increasingly urban. In fact, 14 of the world’s 17 largest cities are located along coasts. Eleven of these cities, including Bangkok, Jakarta, and Shanghai, are in Asia. In addition, two-fifths of cities with populations of 1 million to 10 million people are located near coastlines.11 The urbanization of coasts brings with it coastal development (including demands for fresh water and sewage treatment) and damage to coastal ecosystems.<br>Urbanization has a deleterious effect on mangroves. Mangroves, forests of salt-tolerant trees and shrubs that grow in the shallow tidal waters of estuaries and coastal areas in tropical regions, line about 8 percent of the world’s coastlines and 25 percent of the world’s tropical coastlines, where they absorb the impact of storms and offer nutrients for most of the world’s marine life.12 A study by the U.S.-based World Resources Institute found that mangrove loss was strongly correlated with the growth of cities and ports.13 Mangrove forests are also cleared for timber and to make room for fish and shrimp ponds, human settlements, and agricultural and industrial development. Kenya, Liberia, the Philippines, and Puerto Rico, have lost over 70 percent of their mangroves.14<br>Population’s Interaction With Other Factors<br>Nondemographic factors, including the economy, national and local policies, technology, and culture, interact with population changes to affect the natural environment. Tourism, fishing, and aquaculture are industries with major economic influences on coastal ecosystems.<br>Tourism<br>Coastal areas worldwide are major destinations for tourism, which represents the fastest growing sector of the global economy.15 Tourism dominates the economy of some regions and small island states; for example, tourism constitutes 95 percent of the economy of the Maldives and is the country’s only source of hard currency.16 Tourism can offer some environmental benefits, such as greater appreciation of the value of natural resources. In the Caribbean, for instance, diving tourism has helped raise awareness about the need for reef conservation. But tourism can also have harmful effects (see Box 1). It can lead to unsustainable coastal development as infrastructure is built on the shoreline to accommodate tourists. In the Caribbean, official estimates say that 70,000 tons of waste are generated annually from tourism activities.17 Yachts, charter boats, and cruise ships are major sources; they bring visitors to ports that often have inadequate collection systems for dealing with the solid waste discharged by the ships. Moreover, the ships provide few long-term economic benefits for the local population, since they do not employ many local citizens.<br>Fishing and Aquaculture<br>Marine fisheries and aquaculture (the controlled cultivation and harvesting of freshwater and marine organisms) produce close to 100 million tons of fish, shellfish, and edible plants every year, providing a livelihood for about 35 million people, most of whom live in developing countries.18 Overharvesting to meet global consumers’ growing demand for seafood can deplete many species and alter the biological structure of coastal ecosystems. Many species are overharvested because the world fishing fleet is larger than it needs to be. Other problems include destructive harvesting methods such as trawling (dragging weighted nets across the sea floor to catch shrimp and bottom-dwelling fish), and bycatch (unintended catch of nontarget species).19 Modern trawling equipment scoops through sediment and rock and often kills the worms, sponges, and other species that live on the seafloor. Aquaculture, the world’s fastest growing food production activity, with an annual growth rate of about 10 percent in the 1990s, can lead to the destruction of mangroves and may lead to irreversible damage to both estuarine and offshore fisheries by introducing biological, chemical, and organic pollutants (such as antibiotics and pesticides) and by modifying habitats.20<br>Human Health, Food Security, and Gender Issues<br>People who live in coastal regions may suffer the cumulative burden of environmental stress from the activities on and overcrowding of the coast and from upstream and inland development. If not properly managed, development can result in pollution, deforestation, and inadequate management of soil, water, pesticides, and fertilizers. Damming rivers can also have negative environmental effects, such as soil erosion and destruction of ecosystems that support various fish and marine mammals. When concentrated in small, confined, and overcrowded areas such as coastal zones, pollution and other problems pose greater threats to human health.<br>Worldwide, sewage is the largest source of environmental contamination, and discharges have increased dramatically in the past three decades. Eighty percent of marine pollution comes from land-based sources; the remaining 20 percent comes from atmospheric sources, including acid rain and marine-based sources such as oil spills.21 As coastal communities grow, sewage can become a threat to local waterways: Demand often exceeds available sewage treatment, and much of the sewage is dumped without being treated. Bathing in or ingesting sewage-contaminated water can cause infections and transmit diseases such as cholera, particularly among children under 5.22 In developing countries, more than 90 percent of wastewater and 70 percent of industrial wastes are discharged in coastal waters without being treated. The United Nations Environment Programme estimates that South Asian waters are at the highest risk of pollution: 825 million people in the region do not have basic sanitation services.23 In Mumbai, India, for instance, almost half of the city’s 12 million residents are either slum dwellers or homeless with little access to sewage and sanitation facilities. The Municipal Corporation of Brihan Mumbai, with support from the World Bank, has started the $300 million Bombay Sewage Disposal Project to collect and dispose of 80 percent of the sewage currently flowing untreated into the sea.24<br>Chemicals and heavy metals found in pesticide runoff and industrial effluents also damage human and marine health. The most serious concerns worldwide involve persistent organic pollutants (POPs), which can be transported in the atmosphere and have become common in the oceans. POPs tend to linger in living tissue and become more concentrated as they move up the food chain, so they are sometimes found even in people who live in remote, undeveloped regions. Evidence links long-term, low-level exposure to certain POPs with reproductive, immunological, neurological, and other problems in marine organisms and humans.25 In Mozambique, for example, more than 100 factories in and around the capital city of Maputo do not have waste treatment plants; toxic wastes, poisons, nondegradable substances, and organic matter are drained into coastal waters.26 These toxins can kill or contaminate marine life; people who eat seafood from polluted areas or who swim in contaminated waters are vulnerable to gastric and other infections.<br>Contaminants and activities that destroy coastal habitats and ecosystems also contribute to the loss of the marine fauna on which many people rely for food and income. Maintaining a healthy coastal habitat is critical because most of the world’s fish produce their young inshore and feed on organisms in coastal waters. Breaking the marine food chain reduces vital supplies of protein for about 1 billion people, most of whom live in developing countries.27<br>Yet restricting fishing rights and access to coastal waters in order to project marine fauna may harm vulnerable groups of people. Poor women depend especially heavily on fish and fishing. They tend to fish close to the shore and use the catch to feed their families, whereas men typically engage in large-scale commercial fishing offshore or in major inland water bodies.28 Operating on a smaller scale, women who fish earn only 40 percent of what men earn for fishing in El Salvador. The situation is similar in rural Honduras, where women earn about half of what men do.29<br>Being less visible in their work, women are also less likely to have access to decisionmakers or to be consulted about the management of natural resources. In the early 1990s, community leaders in El Salvador informally banned fishing in estuaries due to concerns about the overfishing of shrimp and other sea life in the estuary. Women were not consulted in this process and lost a vital source of household protein and income.30 Women usually have different access to and control over land and water in coastal zones: Fewer than 5 percent of beneficiaries of land reform in El Salvador and Honduras were women.31<br>Integrated Coastal Management<br>Managing population pressures in coastal zones is difficult because those regions encompass many physical, social, and regulatory divisions. In addition, multiple competing economic sectors, including tourism, fishing, agriculture, aquaculture, forestry, manufacturing, oil and gas extraction, waste disposal, marine transportation, and real estate development have interests in coastal zones. Governments usually manage each sector separately, if at all. Consequently, many coastal nations have experienced rapid uncontrolled development along their coastlines.<br>In a growing number of countries, coastal zone managers are adopting integrated, multidisciplinary approaches to resource management that incorporate the perspectives of all stakeholders, including governments, the private sector, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and individuals. Integrated coastal management (ICM), an internationally accepted approach to managing resources that is based on the United States’ 1972 Coastal Zone Management Act, allows policymakers and planners to take population issues into account when looking at the pressures, threats, and opportunities facing coastal areas. ICM has been endorsed repeatedly in international conferences, including the 1992 UN Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa.<br>ICM attempts to forge a balance between users of water and natural resources while ensuring that long-term environmental health and productivity are not compromised.32 Countries may use ICM to address the depletion of coastal and ocean resources; deal with pollution that endangers public health; distribute the economic benefits of using the coast and ocean; or develop and manage coastal and marine areas that are not yet being exploited.<br>At least 107 of the world’s 134 coastal developing nations are involved in some type of ICM effort at the national or subnational level.33 In general, the most successful ICM efforts share several characteristics:<br><br>Multiple stakeholders, including representatives from all levels of government, NGOs, indigenous groups, communities, and the private sector;<br>A strong scientific foundation to inform the management process;<br>A formalized mandate and funding mechanisms;<br>Formal decisionmaking that incorporates social, environmental, and economic data;<br>Public participation starting at the initial stages of policy formulation and program development;<br>Community-based management initiatives to develop community experience, build support, and provide information about regional or national programs;<br>Capacity building of local experts through training, education, and applied research;<br>Strong outreach services that provide information and education to all levels of management; and<br>Regular collection of reliable data to measure the success of management initiatives.34<br><br>Future Steps in Addressing Population Issues in Coastal Regions<br>Managing coastal areas requires concerted multisectoral efforts by government institutions at all levels, the private sector, and community groups, as well as sustained political support. Achieving a balance between top-down legislative authorities and bottom-up community involvement requires understanding issues and maintaining strong links with stakeholders in the area.<br>Efforts to balance local interests with national legislation need to consider the socioeconomic context of coastal populations and what role demographic patterns play in the region. Policymakers and program managers can take several steps to address and integrate population concerns into their coastal management efforts.<br>Include Population Data in Baseline Studies on Coastal and Marine Resources <br>Baseline studies assessing the threats to coastal areas should include data on population and the environment, indigenous peoples’ concerns, applicable legislation and the agencies involved, gender concerns, and socioeconomic characteristics of the areas. These studies can be conducted using either exhaustive research or rapid assessment techniques. Data can then be applied with simple participatory tools to quickly assess coastal and marine resources and identify critical threats, such as the extent of fishing and any destructive fishing practices (see Box 2).<br>Incorporate Population and Gender Dynamics Into Planning <br>Coastal resource managers and policymakers need to integrate health, population, gender, and nutrition considerations into ICM by determining the characteristics of beneficiaries and stakeholders, NGO capacity, and opportunities in specific areas. For example, women in coastal areas may have unmet need for family planning — that is, they may want to limit or space their future births but may not be using contraceptives.35 Helping women reach their family planning goals can protect the environment by limiting population growth, but addressing family planning needs must be coordinated with several sectors, particularly the health sector.<br>Several strategies can be used to incorporate population and gender dynamics in planning project activities:<br><br>Staggered introduction. A program is established in one sector, and another program in a different sector is later incorporated into the first activity.<br>Simultaneous introduction. A number of programs are introduced at the same time, and stakeholders consider multiple issues at each stage.<br>Bridge approach. Single-sector activities support one another but are conducted by different staff.<br>Symbiotic method. Program activities are dependent on one another and are conducted by the same staff.36<br><br>In the Philippines, for example, projects have used a combination of these models to build links across sectors. ICM projects developed out of separate single-sector programs, such as those introducing ecologically sound fishing practices and improving the quality and availability of couples counseling on family planning, and later evolved into integrated programs in which project staff worked with local communities and external experts to coordinate integrated population, health, and environment programs (see Box 2).<br>Monitor and Assess Human Impacts on the Marine Environment<br>Integrated management of the marine environment and its natural resources requires greater emphasis on acquiring, analyzing, and using environmental data from a variety of disciplines. It also involves improving the exchange of data between the science and management communities and focusing more on demographic and socioeconomic factors that contribute to marine pollution and coastal degradation.<br>Population estimates for coastal watersheds could provide useful information for coastal managers, especially if the data describe population dynamics on a larger scale. In the United States, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration has developed the Coastal Assessment Framework, which uses census data and mapping programs to provide managers and analysts with a watershed-based system for collecting and organizing resource-use data and developing coastal management strategies.37 Many problems with water quality and ecosystems are best solved at the watershed level, which encompasses the full area that drains into a particular body of water.<br>The Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Programme (CARICOMP), a regional network of marine laboratories, parks, and reserves that studies land-sea interactions, strives to identify which changes in coastal systems are caused by human disturbances and which are simply long-term natural variations. The program focuses on understanding the structure and function of mangroves, seagrasses, and coral reefs, the primary coastal ecosystems in the Caribbean. CARICOMP is one example of a functioning international program for monitoring the coastal marine environment and can be used as a model for other countries or regions.38<br>Conclusion<br>Demographic factors, especially migration, are major considerations in how people use coastal regions. Understanding how population issues can be integrated into coastal management will help policymakers, program managers, and communities design more viable and sustainable strategies for using and safeguarding the world’s coasts and the resources they provide.<br> <br><br>References<br><br>Brian Voigt, “Glossary of Coastal Terminology” (March 1998), accessed online at www.csc.noaa.gov/text/glossary.html, on Aug. 15, 2003; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Coastal Zone Management: Integrated Policies (Paris: OECD, 1993); and Integrated Coastal Management, “What Is the ‘Coast’?” accessed online at http://icm.noaa.gov/story/icm_coast.html, on Aug. 12, 2003.<br>United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) et al., World Resources 2000-2001 — People and Ecosystems: The Fraying Web of Life (Washington, DC: World Resources Institute [WRI], 2001): 44.<br>Joel E. Cohen et al., How Many People Can the Earth Support? (New York: W.W. Norton & Co., 1997).<br>Veravat Hongskul, Into the Next Millennium: Fishery Perspective (November 1999), accessed online at www.fao.org/DOCREP/<br>003/x6947E/X6947E00.htm, on Aug. 12, 2003.<br>United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Fisheries and Aquaculture Atlas CD-ROM (Rome: FAO, 2001); Lauretta Burke et al., eds., Pilot Analysis of Global Ecosystems: Coastal Ecosystems (Washington, DC: WRI, 2001): 19; and Barbara Best and Alan Bornbusch, eds., Global Trade and Consumer Choices: Coral Reefs in Crisis (Feb. 19, 2001), accessed online at www.aaas.org/<br>international/Africa/coralreefs/Coral_Reefs.pdf, on Aug. 12, 2003.<br>Sara Curran et al., “Interactions Between Coastal and Marine Ecosystems and Human Population Systems: Perspectives on How Consumption Mediates This Interaction,” Ambio: A Journal of the Human Environment 31, no. 4 (2002): 264-68.<br>United Nations System-Wide Earthwatch, “Oceans and Coastal Areas,” accessed online at http://earthwatch.unep.net/oceans/<br>coastalthreats.php, on June 20, 2003.<br>Katrina Brown et al., Making Waves: Integrating Coastal Conservation and Development (London: United Nations Environment Programme [UNEP], 2002): 2; and UNEP, Global Environment Outlook 3 (London: UNEP, 2003): 188.<br>Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine Protection (GESAMP), Protecting the Oceans From Land-Based Activities: Land-Based Sources and Activities Affecting the Quality and Uses of the Marine, Coastal, and Associated Freshwater Environment (Jan. 1, 2001), accessed online at http://gesamp.imo.org/no71/index.htm, on Aug. 15, 2003.<br>Jason Bremner and Jaime Perez, “A Case Study of Human Migration and the Sea Cucumber Crisis in the Galapagos Islands,” Ambio: A Journal of the Human Environment 31, no. 4 (2002): 306-10.<br>John Tibbetts, “Coastal Cities: Living on the Edge,” Environmental Health Perspectives 110, no. 11 (2002): 674-81.<br>American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), “Mangroves and Estuaries” (2000), accessed online at http://atlas.aaas.org/index.php?part=2&sec=eco&sub=mangroves, on Aug. 15, 2003.<br>WRI, World Resources 2000-2001: 69-79.<br>WRI, World Resources 2000-2001: 74.<br>Brown et al., Making Waves.<br>Brown et al., Making Waves.<br>UNEP, “Tourism’s Three Main Impact Areas” (Oct. 9, 2001), accessed online at www.uneptie.org/pc/tourism/sust-tourism/env-3main.htm, on Aug. 14, 2003.<br>FAO, World Fisheries and Aquaculture Atlas: 13; and FAO, The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture, 2002 (Rome: FAO, 2003): 5.<br>WRI, World Resources 2000-2001: 76.<br>WRI, World Resources 2000-2001: 76.<br>Biliana Cicin-Sain et al., A Guide to Oceans, Coasts and Islands at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (August 2002), accessed online at www.gpa.unep.org/documents/WSSD/Oceans-Coasts-and-Islands-at-the-WSSD.pdf, on Aug. 25, 2003.<br>Philomene A. Verlaan, “The Importance of Coastal Management to Human Health,” in International Perspectives on Environment, Development and Health, ed. Gurinder S. Shahi et al. (New York: Springer Publishing Company, Inc., 1997).<br>Mansi Jasuja, Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage in UNEP Regional Seas (Nairobi, Kenya: 2002).<br>World Bank Group, “Sewage Disposal Project Transforming Urban Environment and Improving Quality of Life in Mumbai, India” (1999), accessed online at http:// lnweb18.worldbank.org/sar/sa.nsf/<br>Attachments/MbaiSewg/$File/MbaiSewg.pdf, on Aug. 28, 2003.<br>Burke et al., eds., Pilot Analysis of Global Ecosystems.<br>UNEP, Global Environment Outlook 3: 190.<br>WRI, World Resources 2000-2001: 70.<br>FAO, “Coastal Zone Management and Equality Between Women and Men” (1998), accessed online at www.fao.org/sd/epdirect/<br>epre0048.htm, on June 20, 2003.<br>Manuel Benítez et al., “A Platform for Action for the Sustainable Management of Mangroves in the Gulf of Fonseca” (November 2000), accessed online at www.unesco.org/csi/wise/fonseca1.htm, on Aug. 14, 2003.<br>Bénitez et al., “A Platform for Action for the Sustainable Management of Mangroves in the Gulf of Fonseca.”<br>Carmen Diana Deere and Magdalena León, Derechos de propiedad y acceso de la mujer a la tierra en El Salvador (1999), accessed online at www.prisma.org.sv/pubs/prisma32.pdf, on Aug. 28, 2003.<br>United States National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), “What Is Integrated Coastal Management?” accessed online at www.icm.noaa.gov/story/icm_def.html, on Aug. 15, 2003.<br>Jens Sorensen, Baseline 2000: Background Report, accessed online at www.uhi.umb.edu/b2k/baseline2000.pdf, on Aug. 18, 2003.<br>Biliana Cicin-Sain and Robert Knecht, Integrated Coastal and Ocean Management: Concepts and Practices (Washington, DC: Island Press, 1998); and communication with Pam Rubinoff, July 16, 2003.<br>Joan Castro et al., “Integrating Population and Coastal Resource Management for Food Security — The Philippines’ Model” (2000), accessed online at www.path.org/philippines/phils_model.htm, on June 20, 2003.<br>Rainera L. Luero and Robert Layng, “Understanding Reproductive Health/Natural Resource Management Integration in the Philippines,” World Neighbors 28, no. 2 (2002).<br>NOAA Office of Ocean Resources Conservation and Assessment (ORCA), “ORCA’s Coastal Assessment Framework,” accessed online at http://spo.nos.noaa.gov/projects/caf/caf.html, on June 30, 2003.<br>Bjorn Kjerfve et al., “CARICOMP: A Caribbean Network of Marine Laboratories, Parks, and Reserves for Coastal Monitoring and Scientific Collaboration” (May 1998), accessed online at www.unesco.org/<br>csi/pub/papers/kjerfve.htm, on June 20, 2003.<br><br><br>Acknowledgments<br>Liz Creel prepared this policy brief with assistance from PRB staff and other colleagues. Thanks are due to Lori Ashford, Patricia Biermayr-Jenzano, Roger-Mark De Souza, John Williams, and Nancy Yinger, PRB; Pam Rubinoff and Elin Torell, the Coastal Resources Center of the University of Rhode Island’s School of Oceanography; Don Hinrichsen, author and UN consultant; Marea Hatziolos, the World Bank; Alfred Nakatsuma and Tom Gardiner-Outlaw, U.S. Agency for International Development; Richard Langton, Buccoo Reef Trust; Naida Pasion, Save the Children/Philippines; and Salif Diop, Patrick M’mayi, and Philippe Rekacewicz of the United Nations Environment Programme.<br>This work has been funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) under the MEASURE Communication project (HRN-A-00-98-000001-00). PRB’s work with Save the Children in the Philippines, highlighted in this brief, has been supported by the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.<br><br>Box 1<br>Buccoo Reef, Tobago: Balancing Tourism, Health, and Livelihood<br><br>Coral reefs are major storehouses for biodiversity, providing habitat for at least 1 million species of marine animals and plants despite covering only a tiny fraction of the ocean floor. They also provide food, building materials, shoreline protection, and many indirect benefits for people living near them. More than 100 countries — many of them small islands — rely on the resources that coral reefs provide.1 But coral reefs are increasingly threatened by human activity, particularly in developing countries. Coral reefs worldwide are deteriorating at an alarming rate: As of late 2000, 27 percent were severely damaged, compared with 10 percent in 1992.2 More reefs are degraded and threatened by dynamite fishing, coral mining, and other human activities, as well as by bleaching caused by rising ocean temperatures.<br>Buccoo Reef, a marine park in Tobago, is the Caribbean island’s largest, shallowest, and most accessible reef; as such, it is of immense value to the tourism industry. Tourism, Tobago’s largest employer, relies on a healthy marine environment and especially on the health of Buccoo Reef. Recent estimates indicate that over 34,000 people take glass-bottomed boats to visit the reef every year.3 Most reef boats stop to allow visitors to walk on the reef to observe fish, even though reef walks are illegal. The reef is also threatened by inadequate treatment of sewage in the surrounding area.<br>The high nutrient content of wastewater discharged into Buccoo Bay and other waters adjacent to the reef has spurred rapid growth of algae, which damages the reef.4 High levels of fecal coliform bacteria, which pose a threat to human health, have been measured on certain beaches in the park, indicating that the water has been contaminated with human or animal feces.5<br>References<br><br>Reef Relief, “Map of World’s Coral Reefs,” accessed online at www.reefrelief.org/Coral%20Forest/map.html, on Aug. 19, 2003; and R. Costanza et al., “The Value of the World’s Ecosystem Services and Natural Capital,” Nature 387 (May 15, 1997): 256-60.<br>C. Wilkinson, Status of Coral Reefs of the World: 2000 (Townsville, Australia: Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network, 2000).<br>Buccoo Reef Trust, “Tobago Marine Research Centre: Background Paper” (unpublished paper, 2002).<br>B. Lapointe, Impacts of Land-Based Nutrient Pollution on Coral Reefs of Tobago (report prepared for Buccoo Reef Trust, 2003).<br>Institute of Marine Affairs, “The Formulation of a Management Plan for Buccoo Reef Marine Park” (prepared for the Tobago House of Assembly, 1995).<br><br><br>Box 2<br>Integrating Population, Health, and Environment Interventions in the Philippines: The People and Environment Coexistence Development Project
