# Query `65`

## Original Question

*I am trying to understand the concrete process of how a meteorologist at a weather forecast office produces the different types of weather forecasts. I understand how numerical weather models work, but I would like to learn how the model output is turned into a forecast and to what extend it is improved by a skilled meteorologist.

I have found an older reference from 1993 that has some information on the workflow, https://esrl.noaa.gov/gsd/eds/gfesuite/pubs/AWIPS-Forecast-Preparation-System.pdf but this is probably outdated and doesn't talk about the meteorological side.

There are a lot of different forecast products from text to graphical products, so my question might be an overly broad one, but I haven't found much information so far, so I don't want to be too restrictive.

What concrete model outputs do forecasters look at and to what extend do they use local observations and experience?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) weather_forcast/forecast_process4.txt
> About the NWS National Program   Forecast Process  Weather.gov  About the NWS  Forecast Process         <br>     About      We are the National Weather Service   Forecasts and Services   Science and Technology   NWS Partners      <br><br>If it falls from the sky, flows across the surface of the Earth, or is released from the Sun, the National Weather Service most likely produces a forecast for it. NWS meteorologists across the country create forecasts for a wide variety of weather elements such as rainfall, snow storms, severe weather and hurricanes. Our hydrologists specialize in how water flows across the landscape and makes it into lakes, streams and rivers. While additional meteorologists and oceanographers produce wave forecasts for our Nation’s oceans and the Great Lakes. Climate forecasters in the NWS focus on large-scale temperature and precipitation patterns and time scales ranging from a couple weeks to several months.<br>The forecast process is roughly the same regardless of the type of weather. Our scientists thoroughly review current observations using technology such as radar, satellite and data from an assortment of ground-based and airborne instruments to get a complete picture of current conditions. Forecasters often rely on computer programs to create what’s called an “analysis,” which is simply a graphical representation of current conditions. Once this assessment is complete and the analysis is created, forecasters use a wide variety of numerical models, statistical and conceptual models, and years of local experience to determine how the current conditions will change with time. Numerical modeling is fully ingrained in the forecast process, and our forecasters review the output of these models daily. Often, the models yield different results, and in these circumstances, forecasters will determine which models perform best for the given situation or seek a blended solution.<br>One of the key considerations associated with any forecast is the element of uncertainty. The chaotic nature of the earth-atmosphere system and incomplete sampling of its complicated physical processes mean that forecasts become more uncertain at longer time ranges. This uncertainty is why the human component remains a vital piece in the forecast process; as once the forecast is complete, effectively communicating the forecast message becomes as important as the details of the forecast itself. This includes communicating which parts of the forecast are “uncertain” or what might be the “worst-case scenario” if the forecast changes. In addition to using the latest science and technology, NWS staff work with their partners to understand the impacts weather and water events have on our local communities. Now more than ever, NWS staff across the Nation are working hand-in-hand with public safety officials providing forecast advice and interpretation to help them make decisions when weather, water and climate impacts the lives and livelihoods of the American people.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Forecasting desk in a WFO.<br>WFO computers use the AWIPS forecasting system. <br>The Storm Prediction Center is located in The National Weather Center in Norman, OK.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) meteorological_versus_astronomical_seasons/Meteorology3_55.txt
> to the current use of ensemble forecasting in most major forecasting centers, to take into account uncertainty arising from the chaotic nature of the atmosphere.[86] Mathematical models used to predict the long term weather of the Earth (climate models), have been developed that have a resolution today that are as coarse as the older weather prediction models. These climate models are used to investigate long-term climate shifts, such as what effects might be caused by human emission of greenhouse gases.<br><br>Meteorologists[edit]<br>Further information: Meteorologist<br>Meteorologists are scientists who study and work in the field of

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) exhaust_smells/where_do_bad_smells_eventually_go2.txt
> Tags<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Users<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Where do bad smells eventually go?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>6 years, 2 months ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>5 years, 5 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        2k times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            17<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Suppose that I haven't taken a shower for a while, or haven't disposed of my trash, or something, and the room I've been in now stinks. Then, to remove the smell from the room (presumably after first throwing me out of it), you can just open a window or door, and let in the fresh air. Intuitively, the reason this doesn't leave a permanent stench outside, is because there's a lot more atmosphere outside than inside, thus diluting the smell so much it becomes unnoticeable.<br>But wait! There are billions of people on the planet, and life has existed on the planet for billions of years. And surely, most of the lifeforms that have existed here have made lots of bad smells, perhaps especially after they're dead. (And I sure don't think dogs smell good when they're alive either, for that matter.)<br>And yet, we call the air fresh, for the most part. So I suppose that, over time, the bad smells must have been destroyed or absorbed somewhere, and now I'm curious as to where. Would you have any ideas?<br><br><br><br><br>atmosphereair-pollutionair<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Feb 16, 2018 at 20:29<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>OveOve<br><br>28111 silver badge55 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>This is the best question ever asked on this site<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Gimelist<br><br>Feb 17, 2018 at 1:09<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                        1 Answer<br>                                    1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Sorted by:

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) meteorological_versus_astronomical_seasons/Meteorology3_33.txt
> th and 21st centuries, with the advent of computer models and big data, meteorology has become increasingly dependent on numerical methods and computer simulations. This has greatly improved weather forecasting and climate predictions. Additionally, meteorology has expanded to include other areas such as air quality, atmospheric chemistry, and climatology. The advancement in observational, theoretical and computational technologies has enabled ever more accurate weather predictions and understanding of weather pattern and air pollution. In current time, with the advancement in weather forecasting and satellite technology, meteorology has become an integral part of everyday life, and is used for many purposes such as

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) propagation_of_sound_after_lightning/what_causes_thunder_htm3.txt
> Related Articles<br><br><br>How do I Avoid Lightning?<br><br><br>What is Heat Lightning?<br><br><br>What is a Cloudburst?<br><br><br>What is a Thundersnow?<br><br><br>What is Positive Lightning?<br><br><br>What is Lightning?<br><br><br>What is Ball Lightning?<br><br><br><br><br><br>                            Discussion Comments                        <br><br><br><br>            anon961647        <br><br>            July 19, 2014        <br>Is it bad that the thunder hasn't stopped for about 30 minutes? There's no lightning or anything.    <br><br><br>            anon353410        <br><br>            October 30, 2013        <br>I am doing a science fair project. Any suggestions for a safe mini experiment I could do?    <br><br><br>            anon318336        <br><br>            February 7, 2013        <br>Does thunder cause death?    <br><br><br>            anon179428        <br><br>            May 23, 2011        <br>TO - anon115084, what was it like to experience lightning because I think I might be astraphobic.     <br><br><br>            anon160616        <br><br>            March 16, 2011        <br>I used to live in a place where thunderstorms occur almost every day. The thunder would sometimes be so severe that my whole house would rattle and sometimes we would get cracks in my husbands tool shed windows, and some of the windows even completely broke. My dog would always go on barking rampages when the thunder rolled.    <br><br><br>            anon115084        <br><br>            yesterday        <br>you don't necessarily die if you get hit by lightning. trust me; I'm a survivor    <br><br><br>            anon112970        <br><br>            September 22, 2010        <br>I also live in the caribbean. thunder rolls but there's no lightning. why is this? <br><br><br>            anon112590        <br><br>            September 21, 2010        <br>when lightning will strike a person, will that person die? I'm just curious.    <br><br><br>            anon98491        <br><br>            July 23, 2010        <br>"if the thunder don't get you then then lightning will."  Robert Hunter <br><br><br>            anon90298        <br><br>            June 15, 2010        <br>we are having heavy rain and it's thundering but it's not lightning.    <br><br><br>            amypollick        <br><br>            April 7, 2010        <br>Anon75154: I live in an area of the United States where thunderstorms are very common. Most of the time, they are all noise and lightning. The main thing to remember is to stay away from windows, in case the wind is blowing hard. Also, as the article says, stay inside until it's over. Most storms last between 10 and 30 minutes, depending on how fast that individual storm cell or storm line is moving.As long as the storm isn't rated severe, they are usually just very noisy. Try not to be afraid of them. They will pass pretty quickly.    <br><br><br>            anon75154        <br><br>            April 5, 2010


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, weather_forcast/forecast_process4.txt
> About the NWS National Program   Forecast Process  Weather.gov  About the NWS  Forecast Process         <br>     About      We are the National Weather Service   Forecasts and Services   Science and Technology   NWS Partners      <br><br>If it falls from the sky, flows across the surface of the Earth, or is released from the Sun, the National Weather Service most likely produces a forecast for it. NWS meteorologists across the country create forecasts for a wide variety of weather elements such as rainfall, snow storms, severe weather and hurricanes. Our hydrologists specialize in how water flows across the landscape and makes it into lakes, streams and rivers. While additional meteorologists and oceanographers produce wave forecasts for our Nation’s oceans and the Great Lakes. Climate forecasters in the NWS focus on large-scale temperature and precipitation patterns and time scales ranging from a couple weeks to several months.<br>The forecast process is roughly the same regardless of the type of weather. Our scientists thoroughly review current observations using technology such as radar, satellite and data from an assortment of ground-based and airborne instruments to get a complete picture of current conditions. Forecasters often rely on computer programs to create what’s called an “analysis,” which is simply a graphical representation of current conditions. Once this assessment is complete and the analysis is created, forecasters use a wide variety of numerical models, statistical and conceptual models, and years of local experience to determine how the current conditions will change with time. Numerical modeling is fully ingrained in the forecast process, and our forecasters review the output of these models daily. Often, the models yield different results, and in these circumstances, forecasters will determine which models perform best for the given situation or seek a blended solution.<br>One of the key considerations associated with any forecast is the element of uncertainty. The chaotic nature of the earth-atmosphere system and incomplete sampling of its complicated physical processes mean that forecasts become more uncertain at longer time ranges. This uncertainty is why the human component remains a vital piece in the forecast process; as once the forecast is complete, effectively communicating the forecast message becomes as important as the details of the forecast itself. This includes communicating which parts of the forecast are “uncertain” or what might be the “worst-case scenario” if the forecast changes. In addition to using the latest science and technology, NWS staff work with their partners to understand the impacts weather and water events have on our local communities. Now more than ever, NWS staff across the Nation are working hand-in-hand with public safety officials providing forecast advice and interpretation to help them make decisions when weather, water and climate impacts the lives and livelihoods of the American people.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Forecasting desk in a WFO.<br>WFO computers use the AWIPS forecasting system. <br>The Storm Prediction Center is located in The National Weather Center in Norman, OK.
