# Query `66`

## Original Question

*In Pangaea, northern Africa would have had humid onshore winds from the Tethys Ocean, making dense vegetation/rainforest biome likely.

Consequently, would we be likely to find coal underneath the Sahara desert?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0588
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2398
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2398
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2398
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0588
map_cut_50: 0.0588
map_cut_100: 0.0588
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) aurora_equator/Climate_of_Africa4_1.txt
> desert in the world and is one of the hottest, driest and sunniest places on Earth. Located just south of the Sahara is a narrow semi-desert steppe (a semi-arid region) called the Sahel, while Africa's most southern areas contain both savanna plains, and its central portion, including the Congo Basin, contains very dense jungle (rainforest) regions. The western equatorial region is the wettest portion of the continent. Annually, the rain belt across the continent moves northward into Sub-Saharan Africa by August, then passes back south

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) aurora_equator/Equator5_6.txt
> lowlands around the Equator, a location that ensures a high level of incoming radiant energy at all seasons. Tropical rainforests, which worldwide make up one of Earth’s largest biomes, are dominated by broad-leaved trees that form a dense upper canopy and contain a diverse array of vegetation and other life. EquatorWorld map with the Equator marked by a red line.(more)Equator,  great circle around Earth that is everywhere equidistant from the geographic poles and lies in a plane perpendicular to Earth’s axis. This geographic, or

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) coal_under_sahara/_google_vignette3.txt
> Great Basin Desert<br>Chihuahuan Desert<br>Sahara Desert<br>Arabian Desert<br>Kalahari Desert<br>Australian Deserts<br>Gobi Desert<br>Atacama<br><br><br>Desert: Introduction How Deserts Form<br>Desert Biomes<br>Polar Deserts<br>A Fossil Desert<br>Deserts and Drought<br>A Devastating Desert Expansion<br>The Edge of the Desert<br><br><br>Geography Human Geography<br>Physical Geography<br>Economic Geography<br>Urban Geography<br>Political Geography<br><br><br>Continents The United States and Canada<br>Latin America<br>Europe<br>Russia and the Republics<br>Africa<br>Asia<br>Oceania<br>Australia, New Zealand, and Antarctica<br><br><br>Oceans Arctic Ocean<br>Atlantic Ocean<br>Indian Ocean

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) coal_under_sahara/Sahara3_33.txt
> res (100 in) per year to more than 6,000 millimetres (240 in) per year in the whole desert.[26] Nowhere else on Earth has air been found as dry and evaporative as in the Sahara region. However, at least two instances of snowfall have been recorded in Sahara, in February 1979 and December 2016, both in the town of Ain Sefra.[27]<br><br>Desertification and prehistoric climate<br>Main articles: Sahara pump theory, African humid period, Prehistoric North Africa, and North African climate cycles<br>Vegetation and

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) coal_under_sahara/Sahara3_20.txt
> Aswan, Luxor) and in the Nubian Desert (Wadi Halfa).[20] The annual average direct solar irradiation is around 2,800 kWh/(m2 year) in the Great Desert. The Sahara has a huge potential for solar energy production.Sand dunes in the Algerian Sahara<br>The high position of the Sun, the extremely low relative humidity, and the lack of vegetation and rainfall make the Great Desert the hottest large region in the world, and the hottest place on Earth during summer in some spots. The average high temperature exceeds 38 to 40 °C (


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 16, coal_under_sahara/_google_vignette4.txt
> Pacific Ocean<br><br><br>Climate Climate Classification<br>Ecology<br>Biosphere<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>The Geology of the Sahara<br><br><br><br><br>Today, the vast, hostile Sahara remains the mother of all deserts. High points like 11,204-foot (3,415 m) Mount Koussi in Chad rise like stone fortresses in a great battlefield of sand. A series of ridges and mountain ranges are separated by great, stretched, low-lying depressions, like the Quyattara Depression of Egypt that lies 436 feet (143 m) below sea level.<br>Named for the Arabic word for desert, sahra, this vast region sits on top of the warped, deformed, and folded African Shield, composed of some of the oldest rocks on the planet, forged when life was limited to single-celled creatures living in the oceans. These older rocks underlying the present-day Sahara are mostly granite, schist, or gneiss, all mixtures of igneous and metamorphic rocks forged deep beneath the surface. The rocks that form the African Shield were laid down near the surface, buried, remelted, re-fused, and returned finally to the surface. The African Shield comprises the hard bedrock of Africa and has held the continent together during the hundreds of millions of years that it has been split, shifted, twisted, and rammed into Europe as a result of the movement of the crustal plates.<br>This stable mass of rock has been covered over with younger sediments, laid down in horizontal, largely unaltered layers. Much of the Sahara is covered with limestone, made mostly of the skeletons of microscopic sea creatures raining down onto the bottom of a vanished sea.<br>Most of the limestone and sandstone covering the surface of the Sahara were deposited in the Mesozoic era (245–65 million years ago). This was the heyday of the dinosaurs, encompassing their rise in the Triassic period and their mysterious extinction at the end of the Cretaceous period. In the Mesozoic era, both mammals and birds emerged to spread over the surface of the Earth when the dinosaurs faltered. Moreover, at the same time, the evolution of plants transformed life on land. Strange ferns, cycads, ginkgophytes, and other types dominated the surface at the beginning of the period. But by the end, flowering plants and conifers had largely displaced them.<br>The limestone and sandstone laid down when the dinosaurs were gobbling one another were established in vast lakes and seas when the hard underlying rock of the African Shield got heated and deeply buried in the restless jostling of continents. The basins caused by the stretching of the crust over the down-warping rocks of the shield filled with huge bodies of water like the ancient Mega-Chad. Many of these rocks now have that distinctive feature of the desert, a rich, reddish-brown coating of iron and manganese compounds weathered into desert varnish. The plateaus of the Sahara are covered with such dark, varnished rock.<br>Closer to the center of the great desert, several massive volcanic eruptions caused by the stresses and strains of these continental collisions left great, isolated mountain ranges or massifs. These include the highest points of the Sahara, the Tibesti and Ahaggar mountains, plus Mount Uwaynat.<br><br><br><br><br>Desert » Sahara » <br><br><br><br>Blame the Plants for Speed of Sahara Expansion<br><br>A Devastating Desert Expansion<br><br>Telltale Stone Tools Yield Clues
