# Query `70`

## Original Question

*I'm currently doing research for a paper in school where we need to research on a university-like level. When I read the paper Causes and impacts of the 2014 warm anomaly in the NE Pacific, I found the sentence:

The wind stress curl was negative, which has precedence but is still quite unusual.

The wind stress curl was given as −0.5∗106 N∗m−3
. I neither know what wind stress curl is, nor what the negative sign is, nor what the unit of it exactly describes (of course, pressure per meter, but what does that mean?).

Can anyone explain what it is?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.3000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.2000
recall_5: 0.2000
recall_10: 0.6000
recall_25: 0.6000
recall_50: 0.6000
recall_100: 0.6000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3392
ndcg_cut_10: 0.5621
ndcg_cut_25: 0.5621
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5621
ndcg_cut_100: 0.5621
map_cut_1: 0.2000
map_cut_5: 0.2000
map_cut_10: 0.3333
map_cut_25: 0.3333
map_cut_50: 0.3333
map_cut_100: 0.3333
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm1.txt
> Oct 28: Ekman pumping and wind stress curl<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Oct 28: Ekman pumping and wind stress curl<br> <br>Balance between Coriolis and the vertical friction mixing of momentum, or<br>stress, leads to Ekman currents. Integrating this<br>balance vertically (in practice over the top few tens of meters) gives us the Ekman transport:<br> <br><br> <br>These components of<br>Ekman transport describe depth integrated flow (in m2s-1) (i.e.<br>velocity times depth) that is 900<br>to the right (left) of the wind stress in the northern (southern) hemisphere.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) wind_stress_curl/wind_curl_html2_0.txt
> Wind Speed Cubed<br>Wind Curl<br>Wind Divergence<br>Tau-x<br>Tau-y<br>Wind Stress Magnitude<br>Wind Stress Curl<br>Wind Stress Divergence<br>AMSR SST<br>NOAA v.2 AVHRR-only SST<br><br><br><br>Monthly Maps (Plots) <br><br>U<br>V<br>Wind Speed & Dir.<br>Wind Speed<br>Wind Speed Squared<br>Wind Speed Cubed<br>Wind Curl<br>Wind Divergence<br>Tau-x<br>Tau-y<br>Wind Stress Magnitude<br>Wind Stress Curl

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) wind_stress_curl/dynamics_shtml4_2.txt
> wind jets extend at least 500 km into the Pacific and produce distinctive curl dipoles as wind strength decreases away from the jet axis: each jet has a region of positive curl on its left flank and negative curl on its right. (In the mean, the wind jets are more clearly defined by their associated curl dipoles than in the vector winds themselves; Fig. 1.) The magnitudes of these curls are at least as large as that of the ITCZ. Positive curl on the south flank of the Papagayo jet is enhanced and extended to the west because of the westerly winds

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) wind_stress_curl/dynamics_shtml4_1.txt
> by jets blowing through three gaps in the Central American cordillera: Chivela Pass at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mexico, the Lake District lowlands of Nicaragua inland of the Gulf of Papagayo, and the central isthmus of Panama where the Panama Canal was built (Fig. 1).<br>The wind stress curl is Curl() = /x - /y, where the components of the wind stress vector  are  and ; the curl expresses the rotation a vertical column of air would experience in a wind field that varies in space. The Central American

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) wind_stress_curl/wind_curl_html3_0.txt
> Wind Stress Divergence<br>AMSR SST<br>NOAA v.2 AVHRR-only SST<br><br><br><br><br>Regression Coefficients <br><br>U<br>V<br>Wind Speed<br>Wind Speed Squared<br>Wind Speed Cubed<br>Wind Curl<br>Wind Divergence<br>Tau-x<br>Tau-y<br>Wind Stress Magnitude<br>Wind Stress Curl<br>Wind Stress Divergence<br>AMSR SST<br>NOAA v.2 AVHRR-only SST


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm2.txt
> The units of m2<br>s-1 can be thought of as the total transport (m3 s-1)<br>per meter perpendicular to the current.<br> <br>Conveniently, the<br>details of the eddy viscosity profile (the vertical rate of momentum mixing)<br>are irrelevant to this transport<br>result. <br> <br> <br>In an infinite<br>ocean, uniform winds would generate uniform Ekman<br>transports and the ocean currents would be the same everywhere. <br> <br>But the ocean is<br>not infinite, and winds are variable, so Ekman<br>transports are not spatially uniform, which leads to converge and divergence of<br>the surface currents.    <br> <br>Upwelling<br> <br>This effect is<br>dramatic at the coast where winds parallel to the coast cannot drive Ekman transports across the coastline. The details of the<br>ocean circulation response in this case are complicated, but the dominant<br>features of the transport patterns can be deduced from mass balance concepts. <br> <br> <br>Assuming the<br>upwelling pattern is 2-dimensional and uniform alongshore, the Ekman transport offshore must be balanced by water uplifted

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm1.txt
> Oct 28: Ekman pumping and wind stress curl<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Oct 28: Ekman pumping and wind stress curl<br> <br>Balance between Coriolis and the vertical friction mixing of momentum, or<br>stress, leads to Ekman currents. Integrating this<br>balance vertically (in practice over the top few tens of meters) gives us the Ekman transport:<br> <br><br> <br>These components of<br>Ekman transport describe depth integrated flow (in m2s-1) (i.e.<br>velocity times depth) that is 900<br>to the right (left) of the wind stress in the northern (southern) hemisphere.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm3.txt
> upwelling pattern is 2-dimensional and uniform alongshore, the Ekman transport offshore must be balanced by water uplifted<br>from below. <br> <br>The zone of active<br>upwelling can be seen as a band of cold water adjacent to the coast, and this<br>has a characteristic with determined by the Rossby<br>radius which depends <br> <br>           <br> <br>In coastal NJ<br>waters the scales are roughly h = 10m, density difference of 2 kg m-3,<br>and f=10-4 s-1.<br>g =9.81 m s-2, so<br> <br>          R ~ (10 x 10 x 2/1025)1/2<br>104 = 14 km<br> <br>The vertical<br>transport due to upwelling occurs over this horizontal distance next to the<br>coast, so an average vertical velocity can be estimated from mass conservation.<br> <br>Mass conservation<br>also demands that flow feed the upwelling, and this would come from offshore in<br>the 2-dimensional idealized case, or possibly from a divergence of the along<br>shelf flow. <br> <br>There must be an alongshelf flow because of the pressure gradient set up by<br>horizontal density pattern (geostrophy) which will<br>come to later.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 5, wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm5.txt
> transports that pump water downward into the ocean interior.<br> <br>This downward Ekman pumping between the Trades and Westerlies<br>generates a depressed thermocline in the center of<br>the subtropical gyres. <br> <br>This is the case in<br>both hemispheres, because the sign of curl wind stress and f both differ, so we<br>< 0. <br> <br>The baroclinic pressure gradients associated with this drive<br>the large scale gyre circulations, and conservation of mass closes the gyre<br>circulations with intense poleward western boundary<br>currents.<br> <br>Suggested reading:  <br> <br>·       <br>Chapters 3.2, 3.3,<br>3.4 of Ocean Circulation<br>·       <br>Section 9.4 of Pond<br>and Pickard<br>·       <br>Chapter 9 of<br>Stewart

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 8, wind_stress_curl/Wilkin20041028_htm4.txt
> come to later. <br> <br> <br> <br>Ekman pumping.<br> <br>Q: Recalling what<br>you know about the global patterns of winds, what latitudes would you expect to<br>be characterized by converging Ekman transports and<br>therefore downward Ekman pumping?<br> <br>          A: The region between the Trades and Westerlies<br> <br>The net influence<br>of converging or diverging horizontal Ekman<br>transports can be quantified by considering the conservation of mass equation:<br> <br>          <br> <br>Figure<br>3.24 Ocean Circulation: Ekman pumping (convergence<br>and divergence)<br> <br>Recall that the Ekman transport components are related to the wind stress:<br> <br><br> <br>Where   the Ekman pumping velocity wE is<br>negative, i.e. there is a convergence of Ekman<br>transports that pump water downward into the ocean interior.
