# Query `72`

## Original Question

*Taiga is the Russian word for big areas of forest wilderness in high latitude regions. What about forests in the mountains? What is the name for the forested areas in mountains which are below the treeline?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.8000
P_10: 0.4000
P_25: 0.1600
P_50: 0.0800
P_100: 0.0400
recall_1: 0.2500
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 0.2500
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) below_treeline/Tree_line5.txt
> 3,100<br><br>Strong influence from the Southern Patagonian Ice Field serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[44]<br><br><br>Navarino Island, Chile<br><br>55°S<br><br>600<br><br>2,000<br><br>Strong maritime influence serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[44]<br><br>Arctic tree lines[edit]<br>Like the alpine tree lines shown above, polar tree lines are heavily influenced by local variables such as aspect of slope and degree of shelter. In addition, permafrost has a major impact on the ability of trees to place roots into the ground. When roots are too shallow, trees are susceptible to windthrow and erosion. Trees can often grow in river valleys at latitudes where they could not grow on a more exposed site. Maritime influences such as ocean currents also play a major role in determining how far from the equator trees can grow as well as the warm summers experienced in extreme continental climates.[citation needed] In northern inland Scandinavia there is substantial maritime influence on high parallels that keep winters relatively mild, but enough inland effect to have summers well above the threshold for the tree line. Here are some typical polar treelines:<br><br><br><br>Location<br><br>Approx. longitude<br><br>Approx. latitude of tree line<br><br>Notes<br><br><br>Norway<br><br>24°E<br><br>70°N<br><br>The North Atlantic current makes Arctic climates in this region warmer than other coastal locations at comparable latitude. In particular the mildness of winters prevents permafrost.<br><br><br>West Siberian Plain<br><br>75°E<br><br>66°N<br><br><br><br><br>Central Siberian Plateau<br><br>102°E<br><br>72°N<br><br>Extreme continental climate means the summer is warm enough to allow tree growth at higher latitudes, extending to northernmost forests of the world at 72°28'N at Ary-Mas (102° 15' E) in the Novaya River valley, a tributary of the Khatanga River and the more northern Lukunsky grove at 72°31'N, 105° 03' E east from Khatanga River.<br><br><br>Russian Far East (Kamchatka and Chukotka)<br><br>160°E<br><br>60°N<br><br>The Oyashio Current and strong winds affect summer temperatures to prevent tree growth. The Aleutian Islands are almost completely treeless.<br><br><br>Alaska, United States<br><br>152°W<br><br>68°N<br><br>Trees grow north to the south-facing slopes of the Brooks Range. The mountains block cold air coming off of the Arctic Ocean.<br><br><br>Northwest Territories, Canada<br><br>132°W<br><br>69°N<br><br>Reaches north of the Arctic Circle because of the continental nature of the climate and warmer summer temperatures.<br><br><br>Nunavut<br><br>95°W<br><br>61°N<br><br>Influence of the very cold Hudson Bay moves the treeline southwards.<br><br><br>Labrador Peninsula<br><br>72°W<br><br>56°N<br><br>Very strong influence of the Labrador Current on summer temperatures as well as altitude effects (much of Labrador is a plateau). In parts of Labrador, the treeline extends as far south as 53°N. Along the coast the northernmost trees are at 58°N in Napartok Bay.<br><br><br>Greenland<br><br>50°W<br><br>64°N<br><br>Determined by experimental tree planting in the absence of native trees because of isolation from natural seed sources; a very few trees are surviving, but growing slowly, at Søndre Strømfjord, 67°N. There is one natural forest in the Qinngua Valley.<br><br>Antarctic tree lines[edit]<br>Trees exist on Tierra del Fuego (55°S) at the southern end of South America, but generally not on subantarctic islands and not in Antarctica. Therefore, there is no explicit Antarctic tree line.<br>Kerguelen Island (49°S), South Georgia (54°S), and other subantarctic islands are all so heavily wind-exposed and with a too-cold summer climate (tundra) that none have any indigenous tree species. The Falkland Islands (51°S) summer temperature is near the limit, but the islands are also treeless, although some planted trees exist.<br>Antarctic Peninsula is the northernmost point in Antarctica (63°S) and has the mildest weather—it is located 1,080 kilometres (670 mi) from Cape Horn on Tierra del Fuego—yet no trees survive there; only a few mosses, lichens, and species of grass do so. In addition, no trees survive on any of the subantarctic islands near the peninsula.<br><br>Trees growing along the north shore of the Beagle Channel, 55°S.<br>Southern Rata forests exist on Enderby Island and Auckland Islands (both 50°S) and these grow up to an elevation of 370 metres (1,200 ft) in sheltered valleys. These trees seldom grow above 3 m (9.8 ft) in height and they get smaller as one gains altitude, so that by 180 m (600 ft) they are waist-high. These islands have only between 600 and 800 hours of sun annually. Campbell Island (52°S) further south is treeless, except for one stunted Spruce, planted by scientists.[45] The climate on these islands is not severe, but tree growth is limited by almost continual rain and wind. Summers are very cold with an average January temperature of 9 °C (48 °F). Winters are mild 5 °C (41 °F) but wet. Macquarie Island (Australia) is located at 54°S and has no vegetation beyond snow grass and alpine grasses and mosses.[citation needed]<br><br>See also[edit]<br> Trees portal<br>Montane ecosystems<br>Ecotone: a transition between two adjacent ecological communities<br>Edge effects: the effect of contrasting environments on an ecosystem<br>Massenerhebung effect<br>Snow line<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ a b Elliott-Fisk, D.L. (2000). "The Taiga and Boreal Forest". In Barbour, M.G.; Billings, M.D. (eds.). North American Terrestrial Vegetation (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-55986-7.<br><br>^ a b Jørgensen, S.E. (2009). Ecosystem Ecology. Academic Press. ISBN 978-0-444-53466-8.<br><br>^ Körner, C. (2012). Alpine Treelines: Functional Ecology of the Global High Elevation Tree Limits. Illustrated by S. Riedl. Springer. ISBN 978-3-0348-0396-0.<br><br>^ a b Zwinger, A.; Willard, B.E. (1996). Land Above the Trees: A Guide to American Alpine Tundra. Big Earth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-55566-171-7.<br><br>^ "Why treelines?".<br><br>^ a b c d Körner, Christian (November 1, 2021). "The cold range limit of trees". Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 36 (11): 979–989. doi:10.1016/j.tree.2021.06.011. PMID 34272073. S2CID 235999977.<br><br>^ Tranquillini, W. (1979). Physiological Ecology of the Alpine Timberline: tree existence at high altitudes with special reference to the European Alps. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-3-642-67107-4.<br><br>^ Coates, K.D.; Haeussler, S.; Lindeburgh, S; Pojar, R.; Stock, A.J. (1994). Ecology and silviculture of interior spruce in British Columbia. OCLC 66824523.<br><br>^ Viereck, L.A. (1979). "Characteristics of treeline plant communities in Alaska". Holarctic Ecology. 2 (4): 228–238. JSTOR 3682417.<br><br>^ Viereck, L.A.; Van Cleve, K.; Dyrness, C. T. (1986). "Forest ecosystem distribution in the taiga environment". In Van Cleve, K.; Chapin, F.S.; Flanagan, P.W.; Viereck, L.A.; Dyrness, C.T. (eds.). Forest Ecosystems in the Alaskan Taiga. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. pp. 22–43. doi:10.1007/978-1-4612-4902-3_3. ISBN 978-1-4612-4902-3.<br><br>^ Körner, Christian; Paulsen, Jens (May 2004). "A World-Wide Study of High Altitude Treeline Temperatures". J. Biogeogr. 31 (5): 713–732. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2699.2003.01043.x. JSTOR 3554841. S2CID 59025355.<br><br>^ Paulsen, Jens; Körner, Christian (2014). "A climate-based model to predict potential treeline position around the globe" (PDF). Alpine Botany. 124: 1–12. doi:10.1007/s00035-014-0124-0. S2CID 8752987.<br><br>^ Körner, C (2003). Alpine plant life: functional plant ecology of high mountain ecosystems. Springer. ISBN 978-3-540-00347-2.<br><br>^ "Alpine Tundra Ecosystem". Rocky Mountain National Park. National Park Service. Retrieved 2011-05-13.<br><br>^ a b c Peet, R.K. (2000). "Forests and Meadows of the Rocky Mountains". In Barbour, M.G.; Billings, M.D. (eds.). North American Terrestrial Vegetation (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-55986-7.<br><br>^ a b c d e Arno, S.F. (1984). Timberline: Mountain and Arctic Forest Frontiers. Seattle, WA: The Mountaineers. ISBN 978-0-89886-085-6.<br><br>^ Baker, F.S. (1944). "Mountain climates of the western United States". Ecological Monographs. 14 (2): 223–254. doi:10.2307/1943534. JSTOR 1943534.<br><br>^ Geiger, R. (1950). The Climate near the Ground. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.<br><br>^ Sowell, J.B.; McNulty, S.P.; Schilling, B.K. (1996). "The role of stem recharge in reducing the winter desiccation of Picea engelmannii (Pinaceae) needles at alpine timberline". American Journal of Botany. 83 (10): 1351–1355. doi:10.2307/2446122. JSTOR 2446122.<br><br>^ Shaw, C.H. (1909). "The causes of timberline on mountains: the role of snow". Plant World. 12: 169–181.<br><br>^ Pienitz, Reinhard; Douglas, Marianne S. V.; Smol, John P. (2004). Long-term environmental change in Arctic and Antarctic lakes. Springer. p. 102. ISBN 978-1-4020-2126-8.<br><br>^ Timoney, K.P.; La Roi, G.H.; Zoltai, S.C.; Robinson, A.L. (1992). "The high subarctic forest–tundra of northwestern Canada: position, width, and vegetation gradients in relation to climate". Arctic. 45 (1): 1–9. doi:10.14430/arctic1367. JSTOR 40511186.<br><br>^ a b Löve, Dd (1970). "Subarctic and subalpine: where and what?". Arctic and Alpine Research. 2 (1): 63–73. doi:10.2307/1550141. JSTOR 1550141.<br><br>^ Hare, F. Kenneth; Ritchie, J.C. (1972). "The boreal bioclimates". Geographical Review. 62 (3): 333–365. doi:10.2307/213287. JSTOR 213287.<br><br>^ R.A., Black; Bliss, L.C. (1978). "Recovery sequence of Picea mariana–Vaccinium uliginosum forests after burning near Inuvik, Northwest Territories, Canada". Canadian Journal of Botany. 56 (6): 2020–2030. doi:10.1139/b78-243.<br><br>^ "Antipodes Subantarctic Islands tundra". Terrestrial Ecoregions. World Wildlife Fund.<br><br>^ "Magellanic subpolar Nothofagus forests". Terrestrial Ecoregions. World Wildlife Fund.<br><br>^ Chalupa, V. (1992). "Micropropagation of European Mountain Ash (Sorbus aucuparia L.) and Wild Service Tree [Sorbus torminalis (L.) Cr.]". In Bajaj, Y.P.S. (ed.). High-Tech and Micropropagation II. Biotechnology in Agriculture and Forestry. Vol. 18. Springer Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 211–226. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-76422-6_11. ISBN 978-3-642-76424-0.<br><br>^ a b "Treeline". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-12-03. Retrieved 2011-06-22.<br><br>^ Fajardo, A; Piper, FI; Cavieres, LA (2011). "Distinguishing local from global climate influences in the variation of carbon status with altitude in a tree line species". Global Ecology and Biogeography. 20 (2): 307–318. doi:10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00598.x. hdl:10533/134794.<br><br>^ Dickinson, Joshua C. (1969). "The Eucalypt in the Sierra of Southern Peru". Annals of the Association of American Geographers. 59 (2): 294–307. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8306.1969.tb00672.x. ISSN 0004-5608. JSTOR 2561632.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g Körner, Ch (1998). "A re-assessment of high elevation treeline positions and their explanation". Oecologia. 115 (4): 445–459. Bibcode:1998Oecol.115..445K. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.454.8501. doi:10.1007/s004420050540. PMID 28308263. S2CID 8647814.<br><br>^ "Action For Scotland's Biodiversity" (PDF).<br><br>^ a b Körner, Ch. "High Elevation Treeline Research". Archived from the original on 2011-09-27. Retrieved 2010-06-14.<br><br>^ "Physiogeography of the Russian Far East".<br><br>^ "Mount Washington State Park". New Hampshire State Parks. Archived from the original on 2013-04-03. Retrieved 2013-08-22. Tree line, the elevation above which trees do not grow, is about 4,400 feet in the White Mountains, nearly 2,000 feet below the summit of Mt. Washington.<br><br>^ "Georgia's natural resources and conservation" (PDF). geostat.ge (in Georgian). National Statistic Office of Georgia. Retrieved 2023-04-13.<br><br>^ a b Schoenherr, Allan A. (1995). A Natural History of California. UC Press. ISBN 978-0-520-06922-0.<br><br>^ "台灣地帶性植被之區劃與植物區系之分區" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-11-29.<br><br>^ "Mount Kinabalu National Park". www.ecologyasia.com. Ecology Asia. 4 September 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2016.<br><br>^ "Alpine trees | ANU Research School of Biology".<br><br>^ Lara, Antonio; Villalba, Ricardo; Wolodarsky-Franke, Alexia; Aravena, Juan Carlos; Luckman, Brian H.; Cuq, Emilio (2005). "Spatial and temporal variation in Nothofagus pumilio growth at tree line along its latitudinal range (35°40′–55° S) in the Chilean Andes" (PDF). Journal of Biogeography. 32 (5): 879–893. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2699.2005.01191.x. S2CID 51845387.<br><br>^ Sottile, Gonzalo D.; Echeverría, Marcos E.; Tonello, Marcela S.; Marcos, María A.; Bamonte, Florencia P.; Rayó, Cecilia; Mancini, María V. (2020). "Dinámica de la vegetación andina del lago Argentino (50° S, 72° O) desde el retiro de los glaciares (ca. 12.000 años cal AP)". Andean Geology (in Spanish). 47 (3): 599–627. doi:10.5027/andgeoV47n3-3303. hdl:11336/141218.<br><br>^ a b Aravena, Juan C.; Lara, Antonio; Wolodarsky-Franke, Alexia; Villalba, Ricardo; Cuq, Emilio (2002). "Tree-ring growth patterns and temperature reconstruction from Nothofagus pumilio (Fagaceae) forests at the upper tree line of southern, Chilean Patagonia". Revista Chilena de Historia Natural. 75 (2). doi:10.4067/S0716-078X2002000200008. hdl:11336/40918.<br><br>^ kimberleycollins (2012-04-12). "The Lone Tree of Campbell Island". Toroa. Retrieved 2021-09-05.<br><br><br>Further reading[edit]<br>Arno, S.F.; Hammerly, R.P. (1984). Timberline. Mountain and Arctic Forest Frontiers. Seattle: The Mountaineers. ISBN 978-0-89886-085-6.<br>Beringer, Jason; Tapper, Nigel J.; McHugh, Ian; Chapin, F. S. III; et al. (2001). "Impact of Arctic treeline on synoptic climate". Geophysical Research Letters. 28 (22): 4247–4250. Bibcode:2001GeoRL..28.4247B. doi:10.1029/2001GL012914.<br>Ødum, S (1979). "Actual and potential tree line in the North Atlantic region, especially in Greenland and the Faroes". Holarctic Ecology. 2 (4): 222–227. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0587.1979.tb01293.x.<br>Ødum, S (1991). "Choice of species and origins for arboriculture in Greenland and the Faroe Islands". Dansk Dendrologisk Årsskrift. 9: 3–78.<br>Singh, C.P.; Panigrahy, S.; Parihar, J.S.; Dharaiya, N. (2013). "Modeling environmental niche of Himalayan birch and remote sensing based vicarious validation" (PDF). Tropical Ecology. 54 (3): 321–329.<br>Singh, C.P.; Panigrahy, S.; Thapliyal, A.; Kimothi, M.M.; Soni, P.; Parihar, J.S. (2012). "Monitoring the alpine treeline shift in parts of the Indian Himalayas using remote sensing" (PDF). Current Science. 102 (4): 559–562. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-16.<br>Panigrahy, Sushma; Singh, C.P.; Kimothi, M.M.; Soni, P.; Parihar, J.S. (2010). "The Upward Migration of Alpine Vegetation as an Indicator of Climate Change: Observations from Indian Himalayan region using Remote Sensing Data" (PDF). NNRMS(B). 35: 73–80. Archived from the original on November 24, 2011.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)<br>Singh, C.P. (2008). "Alpine ecosystems in relation to climate change". ISG Newsletter. 14: 54–57.<br>Ameztegui, A; Coll, L; Brotons, L; Ninot, JM (2016). "Land-use legacies rather than climate change are driving the recent upward shift of the mountain tree line in the Pyrenees" (PDF). Global Ecology and Biogeography. 25 (3): 263. doi:10.1111/geb.12407. hdl:10459.1/65151.<br>Tree line at Wikipedia's sister projects:Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from Commons<br>Authority control databases: National <br>Germany<br>Israel<br>United States<br><br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tree_line&oldid=1212243902"<br>Categories: TreesConifersForest ecologyMontane ecologyClimate zonesHidden categories: CS1 Georgian-language sources (ka)CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing German-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2023Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011CS1 maint: unfit URLArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 6 March 2024, at 21:16 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) below_treeline/Tree_line2.txt
> 3.3North America<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.4South America<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4Worldwide distribution<br><br><br><br>Toggle Worldwide distribution subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1Alpine tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.2Arctic tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.3Antarctic tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>6References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tree line<br><br><br><br>43 languages<br><br><br><br><br>العربيةAzərbaycancaCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilge한국어हिन्दीÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡLietuviųNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoTiếng ViệtŽemaitėška中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Edge of the habitat at which trees are capable of growing<br>Tree line above St. Moritz, Switzerland. May 2009<br>In this view of an alpine tree line, the distant line looks particularly sharp. The foreground shows the transition from trees to no trees. These trees are stunted in growth and one-sided because of cold and constant wind.<br>The tree line is the edge of a habitat at which trees are capable of growing and beyond which they are not. It is found at high elevations and high latitudes. Beyond the tree line, trees cannot tolerate the environmental conditions (usually low temperatures, extreme snowpack, or associated lack of available moisture).[1]: 51  The tree line is sometimes distinguished from a lower timberline, which is the line below which trees form a forest with a closed canopy.[2]: 151 [3]: 18 <br>At the tree line, tree growth is often sparse, stunted, and deformed by wind and cold. This is sometimes known as krummholz (German for "crooked wood").[4]: 58 <br>The tree line often appears well-defined, but it can be a more gradual transition. Trees grow shorter and often at lower densities as they approach the tree line, above which they are unable to grow at all.[4]: 55  Given a certain latitude, the tree line is approximately 300 to 1000 meters below the permanent snow line and roughly parallel to it.[5]<br><br>Low arctic tundra. The southern end of this ecoregion is the arctic treeline in North America.<br><br>Causes[edit]<br>Due to their vertical structure, trees are more susceptible to cold than more ground-hugging forms of plants.[6] Summer warmth generally sets the limit to which tree growth can occur, for while tree line conifers are very frost-hardy during most of the year, they become sensitive to just 1 or 2 degrees of frost in mid-summer.[7][8] A series of warm summers in the 1940s seems to have permitted the establishment of "significant numbers" of spruce seedlings above the previous treeline in the hills near Fairbanks, Alaska.[9][10] Survival depends on a sufficiency of new growth to support the tree. Wind can mechanically damage tree tissues directly, including blasting with windborne particles, and may also contribute to the desiccation of foliage, especially of shoots that project above the snow cover.[citation needed]<br>The actual tree line is set by the mean temperature, while the realized tree line may be affected by disturbances, such as logging.[6]  Most human activities cannot change the actual tree line, unless they affect the climate.[6] The tree line follows the line where the seasonal mean temperature is approximately 6 °C or 43 °F.[11][6] The seasonal mean temperature is taken over all days whose mean temperature is above 0.9 °C (33.6 °F). A growing season of 94 days above that temperature is required for tree growth.[12]<br><br>Types[edit]<br>This map of the "Distribution of Plants in a Perpendicular Direction in the Torrid, the Temperate, and the Frigid Zones" was first published 1848 in "The Physical Atlas". It shows tree lines of the Andes, Tenerife, Himalaya, Alps, Pyrenees, and Lapland.<br>Alpine tree line of mountain pine and European spruce below the subalpine zone of Bistrishko Branishte, with the surmounting Golyam Rezen Peak, Vitosha Mountain, Sofia, Bulgaria<br>Several types of tree lines are defined in ecology and geography:<br><br>Alpine[edit]<br>An alpine tree line in the Tararua Range<br>An alpine tree line is the highest elevation that sustains trees; higher up it is too cold, or the snow cover lasts for too much of the year, to sustain trees.[2]: 151  The climate above the tree line of mountains is called an alpine climate,[13]: 21  and the habitat can be described as the alpine zone.[14] Treelines on north-facing slopes in the northern hemisphere are lower than on south-facing slopes, because the increased shade on north-facing slopes means the snowpack takes longer to melt. This shortens the growing season for trees.[15]: 109  In the southern hemisphere, the south-facing slopes have the shorter growing season.<br>The alpine tree line boundary is seldom abrupt: it usually forms a transition zone between closed forest below and treeless alpine zone above. This zone of transition occurs "near the top of the tallest peaks in the northeastern United States, high up on the giant volcanoes in central Mexico, and on mountains in each of the 11 western states and throughout much of Canada and Alaska".[16] Environmentally dwarfed shrubs (krummholz) commonly form the upper limit.<br>The decrease in air temperature with increasing elevation creates the alpine climate. The rate of decrease can vary in different mountain chains, from 3.5 °F (1.9 °C) per 1,000 feet (300 m) of elevation gain in the dry mountains of the western United States,[16] to 1.4 °F (0.78 °C) per 1,000 feet (300 m) in the moister mountains of the eastern United States.[17] Skin effects and topography can create microclimates that alter the general cooling trend.[18]<br>Compared with arctic tree lines, alpine tree lines may receive fewer than half of the number of degree days (above 10 °C (50 °F)) based on air temperature, but because solar radiation intensities are greater at alpine than at arctic tree lines the number of degree days calculated from leaf temperatures may be very similar.[16]<br>At the alpine tree line, tree growth is inhibited when excessive snow lingers and shortens the growing season to the point where new growth would not have time to harden before the onset of fall frost. Moderate snowpack, however, may promote tree growth by insulating the trees from extreme cold during the winter, curtailing water loss,[19] and prolonging a supply of moisture through the early part of the growing season. However, snow accumulation in sheltered gullies in the Selkirk Mountains of southeastern British Columbia causes the tree line to be 400 metres (1,300 ft) lower than on exposed intervening shoulders.[20]<br>In some mountainous areas, higher elevations above the condensation line, or on equator-facing and leeward slopes, can result in low rainfall and increased exposure to solar radiation. This dries out the soil, resulting in a localized arid environment unsuitable for trees. Many south-facing ridges of the mountains of the Western U.S. have a lower treeline than the northern faces because of increased sun exposure and aridity. Hawaii's treeline of about 8,000 ft (2,400 m) feet is also above the condensation zone and results due to a lack of moisture.[citation needed]<br><br>Exposure[edit]<br>On coasts and isolated mountains, the tree line is often much lower than in corresponding altitudes inland and in larger, more complex mountain systems, because strong winds reduce tree growth. In addition, the lack of suitable soil, such as along talus slopes or exposed rock formations, prevents trees from gaining an adequate foothold and exposes them to drought and sun.<br><br>Arctic[edit]<br>Treeline visible in lower left, northern Quebec, Canada, while trees also grow in the sheltered river valleys.<br>The arctic tree line is the northernmost latitude in the Northern Hemisphere where trees can grow; farther north, it is too cold all year round to sustain trees.[21] Extremely low temperatures, especially when prolonged, can freeze the internal sap of trees, killing them. In addition, permafrost in the soil can prevent trees from getting their roots deep enough for the necessary structural support.[citation needed]<br>Unlike alpine tree lines, the northern tree line occurs at low elevations. The arctic forest–tundra transition zone in northwestern Canada varies in width, perhaps averaging 145 kilometres (90 mi) and widening markedly from west to east,[22] in contrast with the telescoped alpine timberlines.[16] North of the arctic tree line lies the low-growing tundra, and southwards lies the boreal forest.<br>Two zones can be distinguished in the arctic tree line:[23][24] a forest–tundra zone of scattered patches of krummholz or stunted trees, with larger trees along rivers and on sheltered sites set in a matrix of tundra; and "open boreal forest" or "lichen woodland", consisting of open groves of erect trees underlain by a carpet of Cladonia spp. lichens.[23] The proportion of trees to lichen mat increases southwards towards the "forest line", where trees cover 50 percent or more of the landscape.[16][25]<br><br>Antarctic[edit]<br>Further information: Antipodes Subantarctic Islands tundra and Tierra del Fuego<br>A southern treeline exists in the New Zealand Subantarctic Islands and the Australian Macquarie Island, with places where mean annual temperatures above 5 °C (41 °F) support trees and woody plants, and those below 5 °C (41 °F) do not.[26]<br>Another treeline exists in the southwesternmost parts of the Magellanic subpolar forests ecoregion, where the forest merges into the subantarctic tundra (termed Magellanic moorland or Magellanic tundra).[27] For example, the northern halves of Hoste and Navarino Islands have Nothofagus antarctica forests but the southern parts consist of moorlands and tundra.<br><br>Tree species near tree line[edit]<br>Coniferous species tree line below Vihren Peak, Pirin Mountains, Bulgaria<br>Dahurian larch growing close to the Arctic tree line in the Kolyma region, Arctic northeast Siberia<br>View of a Magellanic lenga forest close to the tree line in Torres del Paine National Park, Chile<br>Some typical Arctic and alpine tree line tree species (note the predominance of conifers):<br><br>Australia[edit]<br>Snow gum (Eucalyptus pauciflora)<br>Eurasia[edit]<br><br>Dahurian larch (Larix gmelinii)<br>Macedonian pine (Pinus peuce)

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) below_treeline/Montane_ecosystems4.txt
> Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Ecosystems found in mountains<br><br><br>A subalpine lake in the Cascade Range, Washington, United States<br>Montane ecosystems are found on the slopes of mountains. The alpine climate in these regions strongly affects the ecosystem because temperatures fall as elevation increases, causing the ecosystem to stratify. This stratification is a crucial factor in shaping plant community, biodiversity, metabolic processes and ecosystem dynamics for montane ecosystems.[1] Dense montane forests are common at moderate elevations, due to moderate temperatures and high rainfall. At higher elevations, the climate is harsher, with lower temperatures and higher winds, preventing the growth of trees and causing the plant community to transition to montane grasslands and shrublands or alpine tundra. Due to the unique climate conditions of montane ecosystems, they contain increased numbers of endemic species. Montane ecosystems also exhibit variation in ecosystem services, which include carbon storage and water supply.[2]<br><br><br>Life zones[edit]<br>A stand of mountain birch at around 750 m in Trollheimen, typical of Scandinavian subalpine forests<br>As elevation increases, the climate becomes cooler, due to a decrease in atmospheric pressure and the adiabatic cooling of airmasses.[3] In middle latitudes, the change in climate by moving up 100 meters on a mountain is roughly equivalent to moving 80 kilometers (45 miles or 0.75° of latitude) towards the nearest pole.[4] The characteristic flora and fauna in the mountains tend to strongly depend on elevation, because of the change in climate. This dependency causes life zones to form: bands of similar ecosystems at similar elevations.[5]<br>One of the typical life zones on mountains is the montane forest: at moderate elevations, the rainfall and temperate climate encourages dense forests to grow. Holdridge defines the climate of montane forest as having a biotemperature of between 6 and 12 °C (43 and 54 °F), where biotemperature is the mean temperature considering temperatures below 0 °C (32 °F) to be 0 °C (32 °F).[5] Above the elevation of the montane forest, the trees thin out in the subalpine zone, become twisted krummholz, and eventually fail to grow. Therefore, montane forests often contain trees with twisted trunks. This phenomenon is observed due to the increase in the wind strength with the elevation. The elevation where trees fail to grow is called the tree line. The biotemperature of the subalpine zone is between 3 and 6 °C (37 and 43 °F).[5]<br>Above the tree line the ecosystem is called the alpine zone or alpine tundra, dominated by grasses and low-growing shrubs. The biotemperature of the alpine zone is between 1.5 and 3 °C (34.7 and 37.4 °F). Many different plant species live in the alpine environment, including perennial grasses, sedges, forbs, cushion plants, mosses, and lichens.[6] Alpine plants must adapt to the harsh conditions of the alpine environment, which include low temperatures, dryness, ultraviolet radiation, and a short growing season. Alpine plants display adaptations such as rosette structures, waxy surfaces, and hairy leaves. Because of the common characteristics of these zones, the World Wildlife Fund groups a set of related ecoregions into the "montane grassland and shrubland" biome. A region in the Hengduan Mountains adjoining Asia's Tibetan Plateau have been identified as the world's oldest continuous alpine ecosystem with a community of 3000 plant species, some of them continuously co-existing for 30 million years.[7]<br>Climates with biotemperatures below 1.5 °C (35 °F) tend to consist purely of rock and ice.[5]<br><br><br>Montane forests[edit]<br>Waimea Canyon, Hawaii, is known for its montane vegetation.<br>Montane forests occur between the submontane zone and the subalpine zone. The elevation at which one habitat changes to another varies across the globe, particularly by latitude. The upper limit of montane forests, the tree line, is often marked by a change to hardier species that occur in less dense stands.[8] For example, in the Sierra Nevada of California, the montane forest has dense stands of lodgepole pine and red fir, while the Sierra Nevada subalpine zone contains sparse stands of whitebark pine.[9]<br>The lower bound of the montane zone may be a "lower timberline" that separates the montane forest from drier steppe or desert region.[8]<br>Montane forests differ from lowland forests in the same area.[10] The climate of montane forests is colder than lowland climate at the same latitude, so the montane forests often have species typical of higher-latitude lowland forests.[11]  Humans can disturb montane forests through forestry and agriculture.[10] On isolated mountains, montane forests surrounded by treeless dry regions are typical "sky island" ecosystems.[12]<br><br>Temperate climate[edit]<br>Montane forests in temperate climate are typically one of temperate coniferous forest or temperate broadleaf and mixed forest, forest types that are well known from Europe and northeastern North America. Montane forests outside Europe tend to be more species-rich, because Europe during the Pleistocene offered smaller-area refugia from the glaciers.[13]<br><br>Temperate montane forest in Bavaria, Germany<br>Montane forests in temperate climate occur in Europe (the Alps, Carpathians, and more),[14] in North America (e.g.,Appalachians, Rocky Mountains, Cascade Range, and Sierra Nevada),[15] South America,[16] New Zealand,[17] and the Himalayas.<br>Climate change is predicted to affect temperate montane forests. For example, in the Pacific Northwest of North America, climate change may cause "potential reduced snowpack, higher levels of evapotranspiration, increased summer drought" which will negatively affect montane wetlands.[18]<br><br>Mediterranean climate[edit]<br>Iranian oak scrub in the Zagros Mountains<br>Montane forests in Mediterranean climate are warm and dry except in winter, when they are relatively wet and mild. Montane forests located in Mediterranean climates, known as oro-Mediterranean, exhibit towering trees alongside high biomass.[19] These forests are typically mixed conifer and broadleaf forests, with only a few conifer species. Pine and juniper are typical trees found in Mediterranean montane forests. The broadleaf trees show more variety and are often evergreen, e.g. evergreen oak.[citation needed]<br>This type of forest is found in the Mediterranean Basin, North Africa, Mexico and the southwestern US, Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan.[citation needed]<br><br><br>Subtropical and tropical climate[edit]<br>Tropical montane forest at around 2,000 m in Malaysia<br>In the tropics, montane forests can consist of broadleaf forest in addition to coniferous forest. One example of a tropical montane forest is a cloud forest, which gains its moisture from clouds and fog.[20][21][22] Cloud forests often exhibit an abundance of mosses covering the ground and vegetation, in which case they are also referred to as mossy forests. Mossy forests usually develop on the saddles of mountains, where moisture introduced by settling clouds is more effectively retained.[23] Depending on latitude, the lower limit of montane rainforests on large mountains is generally between 1,500 and 2,500 metres (4,900 and 8,200 ft) while the upper limit is usually from 2,400 to 3,300 metres (7,900 to 10,800 ft).[24]<br>Tropical montane forests might exhibit high sensitivity to climate change.[25][26] Climate change may cause variation in temperature, precipitation and humidity, which will cause stress on tropical montane forests. The predicted upcoming impacts of climate change might significantly affect biodiversity loss and might result in change of species range and community dynamics. Global climate models predict reduced cloudiness in the future. Reduction in cloudiness may already be affecting the Monteverde cloud forest in Costa Rica.[27][28]<br><br>Subalpine zone[edit]<br>The subalpine zone is the biotic zone immediately below the tree line around the world. In tropical regions of Southeast Asia the tree line may be above 4,000 m (13,000 ft),[29] whereas in Scotland it may be as low as 450 m (1,480 ft).[30] Species that occur in this zone depend on the location of the zone on the Earth, for example, Pinus mugo (scrub mountain pine) in Europe,[31] snow gum in Australia,[32] or subalpine larch, mountain hemlock and subalpine fir in western North America.[33]<br><br>Subalpine fir in Mount Rainier National Park, Washington, United States<br>Trees in the subalpine zone often become krummholz, that is, crooked wood, stunted and twisted in form. At tree line, tree seedlings may germinate on the lee side of rocks and grow only as high as the rock provides wind protection. Further growth is more horizontal than vertical, and additional rooting may occur where branches contact the soil. Snow cover may protect krummholz trees during the winter, but branches higher than wind-shelters or snow cover are usually destroyed. Well-established krummholz trees may be several hundred to a thousand years old.[34]<br>Meadows may be found in the subalpine zone. Tuolumne Meadows in the Sierra Nevada of California, is an example of a subalpine meadow.[35]<br>Example subalpine zones around the world include the French Prealps in Europe, the Sierra Nevada and Rocky Mountain subalpine zones in North America, and subalpine forests in the eastern Himalaya, western Himalaya, and Hengduan mountains of Asia.<br><br>Alpine grasslands and tundra[edit]<br>Main articles: Alpine tundra and Alpine plant<br>Alpine flora near Cascade Pass<br>Alpine grasslands and tundra lie above the tree line, in a world of intense radiation, wind, cold, snow, and ice. As a consequence, alpine vegetation is close to the ground and consists mainly of perennial grasses, sedges, and forbs. Annual plants are rare in this ecosystem and usually are only a few inches tall, with weak root systems.[36] Other common plant life-forms include prostrate shrubs; tussock-forming graminoids; and cryptogams, such as bryophytes and lichens.[6]: 280 <br>Plants have adapted to the harsh alpine environment. Cushion plants, looking like ground-hugging clumps of moss, escape the strong winds blowing a few inches above them. Many flowering plants of the alpine tundra have dense hairs on stems and leaves to provide wind protection or red-colored pigments capable of converting the sun's light rays into heat. Some plants take two or more years to form flower buds, which survive the winter below the surface and then open and produce fruit with seeds in the few weeks of summer.[37] Non-flowering lichens cling to rocks and soil. Their enclosed algal cells can photosynthesize at temperatures as low as −10 °C (14 °F),[38]  and the outer fungal layers can absorb more than their own weight in water.[39]<br><br>An alpine mire in the Swiss Alps<br>The adaptations for survival of drying winds and cold may make tundra vegetation seem very hardy, but in some respects the tundra is very fragile. Repeated footsteps often destroy tundra plants, leaving exposed soil to blow away, and recovery may take hundreds of years.[37]<br>Alpine meadows form where sediments from the weathering of rocks has produced soils well-developed enough to support grasses and sedges. Alpine grasslands are common enough around the world to be categorized as a biome by the World Wildlife Fund. The biome, called "Montane grasslands and shrublands", often evolved as virtual islands, separated from other montane regions by warmer, lower elevation regions, and are frequently home to many distinctive and endemic plants which evolved in response to the cool, wet climate and abundant sunlight.[citation needed]<br><br>Alpine landscape below Malyovitsa Peak, Rila Mountain, Bulgaria<br>The most extensive montane grasslands and shrublands occur in the Neotropical páramo of the Andes Mountains. This biome also occurs in the mountains of east and central Africa, Mount Kinabalu of Borneo, the highest elevations of the Western Ghats in South India and the Central Highlands of New Guinea. A unique feature of many wet tropical montane regions is the presence of giant rosette plants from a variety of plant families, such as Lobelia (Afrotropic), Puya (Neotropic), Cyathea (New Guinea), and Argyroxiphium (Hawaii).[citation needed]<br>Where conditions are drier, one finds montane grasslands, savannas, and woodlands, like the Ethiopian Highlands, and montane steppes, like the steppes of the Tibetan Plateau.[citation needed]<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Forest ecology<br>Tree line<br>Temperate coniferous forests<br>Ecology of the Rocky Mountains<br>Sierra Nevada lower montane forest<br>East African montane forests<br>Afromontane, a series of high-elevation regions in Africa<br>California montane chaparral and woodlands, an ecoregion.<br>Angolan montane forest-grassland mosaic, an ecoregion.<br>Australian Alps montane grasslands, an ecoregion.<br>South Western Ghats montane rain forests, an ecoregion<br>Polonyna (montane meadow)<br>Altitudinal zonation<br>Biome<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Mayor, Jordan R.; Sanders, Nathan J.; Classen, Aimée T.; Bardgett, Richard D.; Clément, Jean-Christophe; Fajardo, Alex; Lavorel, Sandra; Sundqvist, Maja K.; Bahn, Michael; Chisholm, Chelsea; Cieraad, Ellen (February 2017). "Elevation alters ecosystem properties across temperate tree lines globally". Nature. 542 (7639): 91–95. Bibcode:2017Natur.542...91M. doi:10.1038/nature21027. hdl:1874/394068. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 28117440. S2CID 4455333.

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) below_treeline/Tree_line3.txt
> Macedonian pine (Pinus peuce)<br>Swiss pine (Pinus cembra)<br>Mountain pine (Pinus mugo)<br>Arctic white birch (Betula pubescens subsp. tortuosa)<br>Rowan[28] (Sorbus aucuparia)<br><br>North America[edit]<br><br>Subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa)[15]: 106 <br>Subalpine larch (Larix lyallii)[29]<br>Mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana)<br>Alaska yellow cedar (Chaemaecyparis nootkatensis)<br>Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii)[15]: 106 <br>Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis)[29]<br>Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva)<br>Rocky Mountains bristlecone pine (Pinus aristata)<br>Foxtail pine (Pinus balfouriana)<br>Limber pine (Pinus flexilis)<br>Potosi pinyon (Pinus culminicola)<br>Black spruce (Picea mariana)[1]: 53 <br>White spruce (Picea glauca)<br>Tamarack (Larix laricina)<br>Hartweg's pine (Pinus hartwegii)<br><br>South America[edit]<br><br>Antarctic beech (Nothofagus antarctica)<br>Lenga beech (Nothofagus pumilio)[30]<br>Alder (Alnus acuminata)<br>Pino del cerro (Podocarpus parlatorei)<br>Polylepis (Polylepis tarapacana)<br>Eucalyptus (not native to South America but grown in large amounts in the high Andes).[31]<br><br>Worldwide distribution[edit]<br>Alpine tree lines[edit]<br>The alpine tree line at a location is dependent on local variables, such as aspect of slope, rain shadow and proximity to either geographical pole. In addition, in some tropical or island localities, the lack of biogeographical access to species that have evolved in a subalpine environment can result in lower tree lines than one might expect by climate alone.[citation needed]<br>Averaging over many locations and local microclimates, the treeline rises 75 metres (245 ft) when moving 1 degree south from 70 to 50°N, and 130 metres (430 ft) per degree from 50 to 30°N. Between 30°N and 20°S, the treeline is roughly constant, between 3,500 and 4,000 metres (11,500 and 13,100 ft).[32]<br>Here is a list of approximate tree lines from locations around the globe:<br><br><br><br>Location<br><br>Approx. latitude<br><br>Approx. elevation of tree line<br><br>Notes<br><br><br>(m)<br><br>(ft)<br><br><br>Finnmarksvidda, Norway<br><br>69°N<br><br>500<br><br>1,600<br><br>At 71°N, near the coast, the tree-line is below sea level (Arctic tree line).<br><br><br>Abisko, Sweden<br><br>68°N<br><br>650<br><br>2,100<br><br>[32]<br><br><br>Chugach Mountains, Alaska<br><br>61°N<br><br>700<br><br>2,300<br><br>Tree line around 1,500 feet (460 m) or lower in coastal areas<br><br><br>Southern Norway<br><br>61°N<br><br>1,100<br><br>3,600<br><br>Much lower near the coast, down to 500–600 metres (1,600–2,000 ft).<br><br><br>Scotland, United Kingdom<br><br>57°N<br><br>500<br><br>1,600<br><br>Strong maritime influence serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[33]: 79 <br><br><br>Northern Quebec<br><br>56°N<br><br>0<br><br>0<br><br>The cold Labrador Current originating in the arctic makes eastern Canada the sea-level region with the most southern tree-line in the northern hemisphere.<br><br><br>Southern Urals<br><br>55°N<br><br>1,100<br><br>3,600<br><br><br><br><br>Canadian Rockies<br><br>51°N<br><br>2,400<br><br>7,900<br><br><br><br><br>Tatra Mountains<br><br>49°N<br><br>1,600<br><br>5,200<br><br><br><br><br>Olympic Mountains WA, United States<br><br>47°N<br><br>1,500<br><br>4,900<br><br>Heavy winter snowpack buries young trees until late summer<br><br><br>Swiss Alps<br><br>47°N<br><br>2,200<br><br>7,200<br><br>[34]<br><br><br>Mount Katahdin, Maine, United States<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,150<br><br>3,800<br><br><br><br><br>Eastern Alps, Austria, Italy<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,750<br><br>5,700<br><br>More exposure to cold Russian winds than Western Alps<br><br><br>Sikhote-Alin, Russia<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,600<br><br>5,200<br><br>[35]<br><br><br>Alps of Piedmont, Northwestern Italy<br><br>45°N<br><br>2,100<br><br>6,900<br><br><br>New Hampshire, United States<br><br>44°N<br><br>1,350<br><br>4,400<br><br>[36] Some peaks have even lower treelines because of fire and subsequent loss of soil, such as Grand Monadnock and Mount Chocorua.<br><br><br>Wyoming, United States<br><br>43°N<br><br>3,000<br><br>9,800<br><br><br><br><br>Caucasus Mountains<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,400<br><br>7,900<br><br>[37]<br><br><br>Rila and Pirin Mountains, Bulgaria<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,300<br><br>7,500<br><br>Up to 2,600 m (8,500 ft) on favorable locations. Mountain Pine is the most common tree line species.<br><br><br>Pyrenees Spain, France, Andorra<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,300<br><br>7,500<br><br>Mountain Pine is the tree line species<br><br><br>Steens Mountain, Oregon, US<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,500<br><br>8,200

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) symmetric_crater/basicinfo_htm4_3.txt
> monument on your own. This is a good time for backpacking into the wilderness area of the monument. Campsites are easy to find, and water and facilities in the campground can be available into early October, depending on the low nighttime temperatures. Aspen in the mountain areas to the north of the monument take on autumn colors during this time. Heavy fog is not uncommon in the mornings and evenings and sometimes lasts the whole day.<br>Winter (November / December / January / February / March)<br>Winter covers many months at this latitude and altitude, from November through March. The Loop Road usually


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, below_treeline/Tree_line2.txt
> 3.3North America<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3.4South America<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4Worldwide distribution<br><br><br><br>Toggle Worldwide distribution subsection<br><br><br><br><br><br>4.1Alpine tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.2Arctic tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4.3Antarctic tree lines<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>5See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>6References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tree line<br><br><br><br>43 languages<br><br><br><br><br>العربيةAzərbaycancaCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilge한국어हिन्दीÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡLietuviųNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoTiếng ViệtŽemaitėška中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Edge of the habitat at which trees are capable of growing<br>Tree line above St. Moritz, Switzerland. May 2009<br>In this view of an alpine tree line, the distant line looks particularly sharp. The foreground shows the transition from trees to no trees. These trees are stunted in growth and one-sided because of cold and constant wind.<br>The tree line is the edge of a habitat at which trees are capable of growing and beyond which they are not. It is found at high elevations and high latitudes. Beyond the tree line, trees cannot tolerate the environmental conditions (usually low temperatures, extreme snowpack, or associated lack of available moisture).[1]: 51  The tree line is sometimes distinguished from a lower timberline, which is the line below which trees form a forest with a closed canopy.[2]: 151 [3]: 18 <br>At the tree line, tree growth is often sparse, stunted, and deformed by wind and cold. This is sometimes known as krummholz (German for "crooked wood").[4]: 58 <br>The tree line often appears well-defined, but it can be a more gradual transition. Trees grow shorter and often at lower densities as they approach the tree line, above which they are unable to grow at all.[4]: 55  Given a certain latitude, the tree line is approximately 300 to 1000 meters below the permanent snow line and roughly parallel to it.[5]<br><br>Low arctic tundra. The southern end of this ecoregion is the arctic treeline in North America.<br><br>Causes[edit]<br>Due to their vertical structure, trees are more susceptible to cold than more ground-hugging forms of plants.[6] Summer warmth generally sets the limit to which tree growth can occur, for while tree line conifers are very frost-hardy during most of the year, they become sensitive to just 1 or 2 degrees of frost in mid-summer.[7][8] A series of warm summers in the 1940s seems to have permitted the establishment of "significant numbers" of spruce seedlings above the previous treeline in the hills near Fairbanks, Alaska.[9][10] Survival depends on a sufficiency of new growth to support the tree. Wind can mechanically damage tree tissues directly, including blasting with windborne particles, and may also contribute to the desiccation of foliage, especially of shoots that project above the snow cover.[citation needed]<br>The actual tree line is set by the mean temperature, while the realized tree line may be affected by disturbances, such as logging.[6]  Most human activities cannot change the actual tree line, unless they affect the climate.[6] The tree line follows the line where the seasonal mean temperature is approximately 6 °C or 43 °F.[11][6] The seasonal mean temperature is taken over all days whose mean temperature is above 0.9 °C (33.6 °F). A growing season of 94 days above that temperature is required for tree growth.[12]<br><br>Types[edit]<br>This map of the "Distribution of Plants in a Perpendicular Direction in the Torrid, the Temperate, and the Frigid Zones" was first published 1848 in "The Physical Atlas". It shows tree lines of the Andes, Tenerife, Himalaya, Alps, Pyrenees, and Lapland.<br>Alpine tree line of mountain pine and European spruce below the subalpine zone of Bistrishko Branishte, with the surmounting Golyam Rezen Peak, Vitosha Mountain, Sofia, Bulgaria<br>Several types of tree lines are defined in ecology and geography:<br><br>Alpine[edit]<br>An alpine tree line in the Tararua Range<br>An alpine tree line is the highest elevation that sustains trees; higher up it is too cold, or the snow cover lasts for too much of the year, to sustain trees.[2]: 151  The climate above the tree line of mountains is called an alpine climate,[13]: 21  and the habitat can be described as the alpine zone.[14] Treelines on north-facing slopes in the northern hemisphere are lower than on south-facing slopes, because the increased shade on north-facing slopes means the snowpack takes longer to melt. This shortens the growing season for trees.[15]: 109  In the southern hemisphere, the south-facing slopes have the shorter growing season.<br>The alpine tree line boundary is seldom abrupt: it usually forms a transition zone between closed forest below and treeless alpine zone above. This zone of transition occurs "near the top of the tallest peaks in the northeastern United States, high up on the giant volcanoes in central Mexico, and on mountains in each of the 11 western states and throughout much of Canada and Alaska".[16] Environmentally dwarfed shrubs (krummholz) commonly form the upper limit.<br>The decrease in air temperature with increasing elevation creates the alpine climate. The rate of decrease can vary in different mountain chains, from 3.5 °F (1.9 °C) per 1,000 feet (300 m) of elevation gain in the dry mountains of the western United States,[16] to 1.4 °F (0.78 °C) per 1,000 feet (300 m) in the moister mountains of the eastern United States.[17] Skin effects and topography can create microclimates that alter the general cooling trend.[18]<br>Compared with arctic tree lines, alpine tree lines may receive fewer than half of the number of degree days (above 10 °C (50 °F)) based on air temperature, but because solar radiation intensities are greater at alpine than at arctic tree lines the number of degree days calculated from leaf temperatures may be very similar.[16]<br>At the alpine tree line, tree growth is inhibited when excessive snow lingers and shortens the growing season to the point where new growth would not have time to harden before the onset of fall frost. Moderate snowpack, however, may promote tree growth by insulating the trees from extreme cold during the winter, curtailing water loss,[19] and prolonging a supply of moisture through the early part of the growing season. However, snow accumulation in sheltered gullies in the Selkirk Mountains of southeastern British Columbia causes the tree line to be 400 metres (1,300 ft) lower than on exposed intervening shoulders.[20]<br>In some mountainous areas, higher elevations above the condensation line, or on equator-facing and leeward slopes, can result in low rainfall and increased exposure to solar radiation. This dries out the soil, resulting in a localized arid environment unsuitable for trees. Many south-facing ridges of the mountains of the Western U.S. have a lower treeline than the northern faces because of increased sun exposure and aridity. Hawaii's treeline of about 8,000 ft (2,400 m) feet is also above the condensation zone and results due to a lack of moisture.[citation needed]<br><br>Exposure[edit]<br>On coasts and isolated mountains, the tree line is often much lower than in corresponding altitudes inland and in larger, more complex mountain systems, because strong winds reduce tree growth. In addition, the lack of suitable soil, such as along talus slopes or exposed rock formations, prevents trees from gaining an adequate foothold and exposes them to drought and sun.<br><br>Arctic[edit]<br>Treeline visible in lower left, northern Quebec, Canada, while trees also grow in the sheltered river valleys.<br>The arctic tree line is the northernmost latitude in the Northern Hemisphere where trees can grow; farther north, it is too cold all year round to sustain trees.[21] Extremely low temperatures, especially when prolonged, can freeze the internal sap of trees, killing them. In addition, permafrost in the soil can prevent trees from getting their roots deep enough for the necessary structural support.[citation needed]<br>Unlike alpine tree lines, the northern tree line occurs at low elevations. The arctic forest–tundra transition zone in northwestern Canada varies in width, perhaps averaging 145 kilometres (90 mi) and widening markedly from west to east,[22] in contrast with the telescoped alpine timberlines.[16] North of the arctic tree line lies the low-growing tundra, and southwards lies the boreal forest.<br>Two zones can be distinguished in the arctic tree line:[23][24] a forest–tundra zone of scattered patches of krummholz or stunted trees, with larger trees along rivers and on sheltered sites set in a matrix of tundra; and "open boreal forest" or "lichen woodland", consisting of open groves of erect trees underlain by a carpet of Cladonia spp. lichens.[23] The proportion of trees to lichen mat increases southwards towards the "forest line", where trees cover 50 percent or more of the landscape.[16][25]<br><br>Antarctic[edit]<br>Further information: Antipodes Subantarctic Islands tundra and Tierra del Fuego<br>A southern treeline exists in the New Zealand Subantarctic Islands and the Australian Macquarie Island, with places where mean annual temperatures above 5 °C (41 °F) support trees and woody plants, and those below 5 °C (41 °F) do not.[26]<br>Another treeline exists in the southwesternmost parts of the Magellanic subpolar forests ecoregion, where the forest merges into the subantarctic tundra (termed Magellanic moorland or Magellanic tundra).[27] For example, the northern halves of Hoste and Navarino Islands have Nothofagus antarctica forests but the southern parts consist of moorlands and tundra.<br><br>Tree species near tree line[edit]<br>Coniferous species tree line below Vihren Peak, Pirin Mountains, Bulgaria<br>Dahurian larch growing close to the Arctic tree line in the Kolyma region, Arctic northeast Siberia<br>View of a Magellanic lenga forest close to the tree line in Torres del Paine National Park, Chile<br>Some typical Arctic and alpine tree line tree species (note the predominance of conifers):<br><br>Australia[edit]<br>Snow gum (Eucalyptus pauciflora)<br>Eurasia[edit]<br><br>Dahurian larch (Larix gmelinii)<br>Macedonian pine (Pinus peuce)

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, below_treeline/Tree_line5.txt
> 3,100<br><br>Strong influence from the Southern Patagonian Ice Field serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[44]<br><br><br>Navarino Island, Chile<br><br>55°S<br><br>600<br><br>2,000<br><br>Strong maritime influence serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[44]<br><br>Arctic tree lines[edit]<br>Like the alpine tree lines shown above, polar tree lines are heavily influenced by local variables such as aspect of slope and degree of shelter. In addition, permafrost has a major impact on the ability of trees to place roots into the ground. When roots are too shallow, trees are susceptible to windthrow and erosion. Trees can often grow in river valleys at latitudes where they could not grow on a more exposed site. Maritime influences such as ocean currents also play a major role in determining how far from the equator trees can grow as well as the warm summers experienced in extreme continental climates.[citation needed] In northern inland Scandinavia there is substantial maritime influence on high parallels that keep winters relatively mild, but enough inland effect to have summers well above the threshold for the tree line. Here are some typical polar treelines:<br><br><br><br>Location<br><br>Approx. longitude<br><br>Approx. latitude of tree line<br><br>Notes<br><br><br>Norway<br><br>24°E<br><br>70°N<br><br>The North Atlantic current makes Arctic climates in this region warmer than other coastal locations at comparable latitude. In particular the mildness of winters prevents permafrost.<br><br><br>West Siberian Plain<br><br>75°E<br><br>66°N<br><br><br><br><br>Central Siberian Plateau<br><br>102°E<br><br>72°N<br><br>Extreme continental climate means the summer is warm enough to allow tree growth at higher latitudes, extending to northernmost forests of the world at 72°28'N at Ary-Mas (102° 15' E) in the Novaya River valley, a tributary of the Khatanga River and the more northern Lukunsky grove at 72°31'N, 105° 03' E east from Khatanga River.<br><br><br>Russian Far East (Kamchatka and Chukotka)<br><br>160°E<br><br>60°N<br><br>The Oyashio Current and strong winds affect summer temperatures to prevent tree growth. The Aleutian Islands are almost completely treeless.<br><br><br>Alaska, United States<br><br>152°W<br><br>68°N<br><br>Trees grow north to the south-facing slopes of the Brooks Range. The mountains block cold air coming off of the Arctic Ocean.<br><br><br>Northwest Territories, Canada<br><br>132°W<br><br>69°N<br><br>Reaches north of the Arctic Circle because of the continental nature of the climate and warmer summer temperatures.<br><br><br>Nunavut<br><br>95°W<br><br>61°N<br><br>Influence of the very cold Hudson Bay moves the treeline southwards.<br><br><br>Labrador Peninsula<br><br>72°W<br><br>56°N<br><br>Very strong influence of the Labrador Current on summer temperatures as well as altitude effects (much of Labrador is a plateau). In parts of Labrador, the treeline extends as far south as 53°N. Along the coast the northernmost trees are at 58°N in Napartok Bay.<br><br><br>Greenland<br><br>50°W<br><br>64°N<br><br>Determined by experimental tree planting in the absence of native trees because of isolation from natural seed sources; a very few trees are surviving, but growing slowly, at Søndre Strømfjord, 67°N. There is one natural forest in the Qinngua Valley.<br><br>Antarctic tree lines[edit]<br>Trees exist on Tierra del Fuego (55°S) at the southern end of South America, but generally not on subantarctic islands and not in Antarctica. Therefore, there is no explicit Antarctic tree line.<br>Kerguelen Island (49°S), South Georgia (54°S), and other subantarctic islands are all so heavily wind-exposed and with a too-cold summer climate (tundra) that none have any indigenous tree species. The Falkland Islands (51°S) summer temperature is near the limit, but the islands are also treeless, although some planted trees exist.<br>Antarctic Peninsula is the northernmost point in Antarctica (63°S) and has the mildest weather—it is located 1,080 kilometres (670 mi) from Cape Horn on Tierra del Fuego—yet no trees survive there; only a few mosses, lichens, and species of grass do so. In addition, no trees survive on any of the subantarctic islands near the peninsula.<br><br>Trees growing along the north shore of the Beagle Channel, 55°S.<br>Southern Rata forests exist on Enderby Island and Auckland Islands (both 50°S) and these grow up to an elevation of 370 metres (1,200 ft) in sheltered valleys. These trees seldom grow above 3 m (9.8 ft) in height and they get smaller as one gains altitude, so that by 180 m (600 ft) they are waist-high. These islands have only between 600 and 800 hours of sun annually. Campbell Island (52°S) further south is treeless, except for one stunted Spruce, planted by scientists.[45] The climate on these islands is not severe, but tree growth is limited by almost continual rain and wind. Summers are very cold with an average January temperature of 9 °C (48 °F). Winters are mild 5 °C (41 °F) but wet. Macquarie Island (Australia) is located at 54°S and has no vegetation beyond snow grass and alpine grasses and mosses.[citation needed]<br><br>See also[edit]<br> Trees portal<br>Montane ecosystems<br>Ecotone: a transition between two adjacent ecological communities<br>Edge effects: the effect of contrasting environments on an ecosystem<br>Massenerhebung effect<br>Snow line<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ a b Elliott-Fisk, D.L. (2000). "The Taiga and Boreal Forest". In Barbour, M.G.; Billings, M.D. (eds.). North American Terrestrial Vegetation (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-55986-7.<br><br>^ a b Jørgensen, S.E. (2009). Ecosystem Ecology. Academic Press. ISBN 978-0-444-53466-8.<br><br>^ Körner, C. (2012). Alpine Treelines: Functional Ecology of the Global High Elevation Tree Limits. Illustrated by S. Riedl. Springer. ISBN 978-3-0348-0396-0.<br><br>^ a b Zwinger, A.; Willard, B.E. (1996). Land Above the Trees: A Guide to American Alpine Tundra. Big Earth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-55566-171-7.<br><br>^ "Why treelines?".<br><br>^ a b c d Körner, Christian (November 1, 2021). "The cold range limit of trees". Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 36 (11): 979–989. doi:10.1016/j.tree.2021.06.011. PMID 34272073. S2CID 235999977.<br><br>^ Tranquillini, W. (1979). Physiological Ecology of the Alpine Timberline: tree existence at high altitudes with special reference to the European Alps. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-3-642-67107-4.<br><br>^ Coates, K.D.; Haeussler, S.; Lindeburgh, S; Pojar, R.; Stock, A.J. (1994). Ecology and silviculture of interior spruce in British Columbia. OCLC 66824523.<br><br>^ Viereck, L.A. (1979). "Characteristics of treeline plant communities in Alaska". Holarctic Ecology. 2 (4): 228–238. JSTOR 3682417.<br><br>^ Viereck, L.A.; Van Cleve, K.; Dyrness, C. T. (1986). "Forest ecosystem distribution in the taiga environment". In Van Cleve, K.; Chapin, F.S.; Flanagan, P.W.; Viereck, L.A.; Dyrness, C.T. (eds.). Forest Ecosystems in the Alaskan Taiga. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. pp. 22–43. doi:10.1007/978-1-4612-4902-3_3. ISBN 978-1-4612-4902-3.<br><br>^ Körner, Christian; Paulsen, Jens (May 2004). "A World-Wide Study of High Altitude Treeline Temperatures". J. Biogeogr. 31 (5): 713–732. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2699.2003.01043.x. JSTOR 3554841. S2CID 59025355.<br><br>^ Paulsen, Jens; Körner, Christian (2014). "A climate-based model to predict potential treeline position around the globe" (PDF). Alpine Botany. 124: 1–12. doi:10.1007/s00035-014-0124-0. S2CID 8752987.<br><br>^ Körner, C (2003). Alpine plant life: functional plant ecology of high mountain ecosystems. Springer. ISBN 978-3-540-00347-2.<br><br>^ "Alpine Tundra Ecosystem". Rocky Mountain National Park. National Park Service. Retrieved 2011-05-13.<br><br>^ a b c Peet, R.K. (2000). "Forests and Meadows of the Rocky Mountains". In Barbour, M.G.; Billings, M.D. (eds.). North American Terrestrial Vegetation (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-55986-7.<br><br>^ a b c d e Arno, S.F. (1984). Timberline: Mountain and Arctic Forest Frontiers. Seattle, WA: The Mountaineers. ISBN 978-0-89886-085-6.<br><br>^ Baker, F.S. (1944). "Mountain climates of the western United States". Ecological Monographs. 14 (2): 223–254. doi:10.2307/1943534. JSTOR 1943534.<br><br>^ Geiger, R. (1950). The Climate near the Ground. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.<br><br>^ Sowell, J.B.; McNulty, S.P.; Schilling, B.K. (1996). "The role of stem recharge in reducing the winter desiccation of Picea engelmannii (Pinaceae) needles at alpine timberline". American Journal of Botany. 83 (10): 1351–1355. doi:10.2307/2446122. JSTOR 2446122.<br><br>^ Shaw, C.H. (1909). "The causes of timberline on mountains: the role of snow". Plant World. 12: 169–181.<br><br>^ Pienitz, Reinhard; Douglas, Marianne S. V.; Smol, John P. (2004). Long-term environmental change in Arctic and Antarctic lakes. Springer. p. 102. ISBN 978-1-4020-2126-8.<br><br>^ Timoney, K.P.; La Roi, G.H.; Zoltai, S.C.; Robinson, A.L. (1992). "The high subarctic forest–tundra of northwestern Canada: position, width, and vegetation gradients in relation to climate". Arctic. 45 (1): 1–9. doi:10.14430/arctic1367. JSTOR 40511186.<br><br>^ a b Löve, Dd (1970). "Subarctic and subalpine: where and what?". Arctic and Alpine Research. 2 (1): 63–73. doi:10.2307/1550141. JSTOR 1550141.<br><br>^ Hare, F. Kenneth; Ritchie, J.C. (1972). "The boreal bioclimates". Geographical Review. 62 (3): 333–365. doi:10.2307/213287. JSTOR 213287.<br><br>^ R.A., Black; Bliss, L.C. (1978). "Recovery sequence of Picea mariana–Vaccinium uliginosum forests after burning near Inuvik, Northwest Territories, Canada". Canadian Journal of Botany. 56 (6): 2020–2030. doi:10.1139/b78-243.<br><br>^ "Antipodes Subantarctic Islands tundra". Terrestrial Ecoregions. World Wildlife Fund.<br><br>^ "Magellanic subpolar Nothofagus forests". Terrestrial Ecoregions. World Wildlife Fund.<br><br>^ Chalupa, V. (1992). "Micropropagation of European Mountain Ash (Sorbus aucuparia L.) and Wild Service Tree [Sorbus torminalis (L.) Cr.]". In Bajaj, Y.P.S. (ed.). High-Tech and Micropropagation II. Biotechnology in Agriculture and Forestry. Vol. 18. Springer Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 211–226. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-76422-6_11. ISBN 978-3-642-76424-0.<br><br>^ a b "Treeline". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-12-03. Retrieved 2011-06-22.<br><br>^ Fajardo, A; Piper, FI; Cavieres, LA (2011). "Distinguishing local from global climate influences in the variation of carbon status with altitude in a tree line species". Global Ecology and Biogeography. 20 (2): 307–318. doi:10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00598.x. hdl:10533/134794.<br><br>^ Dickinson, Joshua C. (1969). "The Eucalypt in the Sierra of Southern Peru". Annals of the Association of American Geographers. 59 (2): 294–307. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8306.1969.tb00672.x. ISSN 0004-5608. JSTOR 2561632.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g Körner, Ch (1998). "A re-assessment of high elevation treeline positions and their explanation". Oecologia. 115 (4): 445–459. Bibcode:1998Oecol.115..445K. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.454.8501. doi:10.1007/s004420050540. PMID 28308263. S2CID 8647814.<br><br>^ "Action For Scotland's Biodiversity" (PDF).<br><br>^ a b Körner, Ch. "High Elevation Treeline Research". Archived from the original on 2011-09-27. Retrieved 2010-06-14.<br><br>^ "Physiogeography of the Russian Far East".<br><br>^ "Mount Washington State Park". New Hampshire State Parks. Archived from the original on 2013-04-03. Retrieved 2013-08-22. Tree line, the elevation above which trees do not grow, is about 4,400 feet in the White Mountains, nearly 2,000 feet below the summit of Mt. Washington.<br><br>^ "Georgia's natural resources and conservation" (PDF). geostat.ge (in Georgian). National Statistic Office of Georgia. Retrieved 2023-04-13.<br><br>^ a b Schoenherr, Allan A. (1995). A Natural History of California. UC Press. ISBN 978-0-520-06922-0.<br><br>^ "台灣地帶性植被之區劃與植物區系之分區" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-11-29.<br><br>^ "Mount Kinabalu National Park". www.ecologyasia.com. Ecology Asia. 4 September 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2016.<br><br>^ "Alpine trees | ANU Research School of Biology".<br><br>^ Lara, Antonio; Villalba, Ricardo; Wolodarsky-Franke, Alexia; Aravena, Juan Carlos; Luckman, Brian H.; Cuq, Emilio (2005). "Spatial and temporal variation in Nothofagus pumilio growth at tree line along its latitudinal range (35°40′–55° S) in the Chilean Andes" (PDF). Journal of Biogeography. 32 (5): 879–893. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2699.2005.01191.x. S2CID 51845387.<br><br>^ Sottile, Gonzalo D.; Echeverría, Marcos E.; Tonello, Marcela S.; Marcos, María A.; Bamonte, Florencia P.; Rayó, Cecilia; Mancini, María V. (2020). "Dinámica de la vegetación andina del lago Argentino (50° S, 72° O) desde el retiro de los glaciares (ca. 12.000 años cal AP)". Andean Geology (in Spanish). 47 (3): 599–627. doi:10.5027/andgeoV47n3-3303. hdl:11336/141218.<br><br>^ a b Aravena, Juan C.; Lara, Antonio; Wolodarsky-Franke, Alexia; Villalba, Ricardo; Cuq, Emilio (2002). "Tree-ring growth patterns and temperature reconstruction from Nothofagus pumilio (Fagaceae) forests at the upper tree line of southern, Chilean Patagonia". Revista Chilena de Historia Natural. 75 (2). doi:10.4067/S0716-078X2002000200008. hdl:11336/40918.<br><br>^ kimberleycollins (2012-04-12). "The Lone Tree of Campbell Island". Toroa. Retrieved 2021-09-05.<br><br><br>Further reading[edit]<br>Arno, S.F.; Hammerly, R.P. (1984). Timberline. Mountain and Arctic Forest Frontiers. Seattle: The Mountaineers. ISBN 978-0-89886-085-6.<br>Beringer, Jason; Tapper, Nigel J.; McHugh, Ian; Chapin, F. S. III; et al. (2001). "Impact of Arctic treeline on synoptic climate". Geophysical Research Letters. 28 (22): 4247–4250. Bibcode:2001GeoRL..28.4247B. doi:10.1029/2001GL012914.<br>Ødum, S (1979). "Actual and potential tree line in the North Atlantic region, especially in Greenland and the Faroes". Holarctic Ecology. 2 (4): 222–227. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0587.1979.tb01293.x.<br>Ødum, S (1991). "Choice of species and origins for arboriculture in Greenland and the Faroe Islands". Dansk Dendrologisk Årsskrift. 9: 3–78.<br>Singh, C.P.; Panigrahy, S.; Parihar, J.S.; Dharaiya, N. (2013). "Modeling environmental niche of Himalayan birch and remote sensing based vicarious validation" (PDF). Tropical Ecology. 54 (3): 321–329.<br>Singh, C.P.; Panigrahy, S.; Thapliyal, A.; Kimothi, M.M.; Soni, P.; Parihar, J.S. (2012). "Monitoring the alpine treeline shift in parts of the Indian Himalayas using remote sensing" (PDF). Current Science. 102 (4): 559–562. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-05-16.<br>Panigrahy, Sushma; Singh, C.P.; Kimothi, M.M.; Soni, P.; Parihar, J.S. (2010). "The Upward Migration of Alpine Vegetation as an Indicator of Climate Change: Observations from Indian Himalayan region using Remote Sensing Data" (PDF). NNRMS(B). 35: 73–80. Archived from the original on November 24, 2011.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)<br>Singh, C.P. (2008). "Alpine ecosystems in relation to climate change". ISG Newsletter. 14: 54–57.<br>Ameztegui, A; Coll, L; Brotons, L; Ninot, JM (2016). "Land-use legacies rather than climate change are driving the recent upward shift of the mountain tree line in the Pyrenees" (PDF). Global Ecology and Biogeography. 25 (3): 263. doi:10.1111/geb.12407. hdl:10459.1/65151.<br>Tree line at Wikipedia's sister projects:Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from Commons<br>Authority control databases: National <br>Germany<br>Israel<br>United States<br><br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tree_line&oldid=1212243902"<br>Categories: TreesConifersForest ecologyMontane ecologyClimate zonesHidden categories: CS1 Georgian-language sources (ka)CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing German-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2023Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011CS1 maint: unfit URLArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 6 March 2024, at 21:16 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 3, below_treeline/Tree_line3.txt
> Macedonian pine (Pinus peuce)<br>Swiss pine (Pinus cembra)<br>Mountain pine (Pinus mugo)<br>Arctic white birch (Betula pubescens subsp. tortuosa)<br>Rowan[28] (Sorbus aucuparia)<br><br>North America[edit]<br><br>Subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa)[15]: 106 <br>Subalpine larch (Larix lyallii)[29]<br>Mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana)<br>Alaska yellow cedar (Chaemaecyparis nootkatensis)<br>Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii)[15]: 106 <br>Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis)[29]<br>Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva)<br>Rocky Mountains bristlecone pine (Pinus aristata)<br>Foxtail pine (Pinus balfouriana)<br>Limber pine (Pinus flexilis)<br>Potosi pinyon (Pinus culminicola)<br>Black spruce (Picea mariana)[1]: 53 <br>White spruce (Picea glauca)<br>Tamarack (Larix laricina)<br>Hartweg's pine (Pinus hartwegii)<br><br>South America[edit]<br><br>Antarctic beech (Nothofagus antarctica)<br>Lenga beech (Nothofagus pumilio)[30]<br>Alder (Alnus acuminata)<br>Pino del cerro (Podocarpus parlatorei)<br>Polylepis (Polylepis tarapacana)<br>Eucalyptus (not native to South America but grown in large amounts in the high Andes).[31]<br><br>Worldwide distribution[edit]<br>Alpine tree lines[edit]<br>The alpine tree line at a location is dependent on local variables, such as aspect of slope, rain shadow and proximity to either geographical pole. In addition, in some tropical or island localities, the lack of biogeographical access to species that have evolved in a subalpine environment can result in lower tree lines than one might expect by climate alone.[citation needed]<br>Averaging over many locations and local microclimates, the treeline rises 75 metres (245 ft) when moving 1 degree south from 70 to 50°N, and 130 metres (430 ft) per degree from 50 to 30°N. Between 30°N and 20°S, the treeline is roughly constant, between 3,500 and 4,000 metres (11,500 and 13,100 ft).[32]<br>Here is a list of approximate tree lines from locations around the globe:<br><br><br><br>Location<br><br>Approx. latitude<br><br>Approx. elevation of tree line<br><br>Notes<br><br><br>(m)<br><br>(ft)<br><br><br>Finnmarksvidda, Norway<br><br>69°N<br><br>500<br><br>1,600<br><br>At 71°N, near the coast, the tree-line is below sea level (Arctic tree line).<br><br><br>Abisko, Sweden<br><br>68°N<br><br>650<br><br>2,100<br><br>[32]<br><br><br>Chugach Mountains, Alaska<br><br>61°N<br><br>700<br><br>2,300<br><br>Tree line around 1,500 feet (460 m) or lower in coastal areas<br><br><br>Southern Norway<br><br>61°N<br><br>1,100<br><br>3,600<br><br>Much lower near the coast, down to 500–600 metres (1,600–2,000 ft).<br><br><br>Scotland, United Kingdom<br><br>57°N<br><br>500<br><br>1,600<br><br>Strong maritime influence serves to cool summer and restrict tree growth[33]: 79 <br><br><br>Northern Quebec<br><br>56°N<br><br>0<br><br>0<br><br>The cold Labrador Current originating in the arctic makes eastern Canada the sea-level region with the most southern tree-line in the northern hemisphere.<br><br><br>Southern Urals<br><br>55°N<br><br>1,100<br><br>3,600<br><br><br><br><br>Canadian Rockies<br><br>51°N<br><br>2,400<br><br>7,900<br><br><br><br><br>Tatra Mountains<br><br>49°N<br><br>1,600<br><br>5,200<br><br><br><br><br>Olympic Mountains WA, United States<br><br>47°N<br><br>1,500<br><br>4,900<br><br>Heavy winter snowpack buries young trees until late summer<br><br><br>Swiss Alps<br><br>47°N<br><br>2,200<br><br>7,200<br><br>[34]<br><br><br>Mount Katahdin, Maine, United States<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,150<br><br>3,800<br><br><br><br><br>Eastern Alps, Austria, Italy<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,750<br><br>5,700<br><br>More exposure to cold Russian winds than Western Alps<br><br><br>Sikhote-Alin, Russia<br><br>46°N<br><br>1,600<br><br>5,200<br><br>[35]<br><br><br>Alps of Piedmont, Northwestern Italy<br><br>45°N<br><br>2,100<br><br>6,900<br><br><br>New Hampshire, United States<br><br>44°N<br><br>1,350<br><br>4,400<br><br>[36] Some peaks have even lower treelines because of fire and subsequent loss of soil, such as Grand Monadnock and Mount Chocorua.<br><br><br>Wyoming, United States<br><br>43°N<br><br>3,000<br><br>9,800<br><br><br><br><br>Caucasus Mountains<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,400<br><br>7,900<br><br>[37]<br><br><br>Rila and Pirin Mountains, Bulgaria<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,300<br><br>7,500<br><br>Up to 2,600 m (8,500 ft) on favorable locations. Mountain Pine is the most common tree line species.<br><br><br>Pyrenees Spain, France, Andorra<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,300<br><br>7,500<br><br>Mountain Pine is the tree line species<br><br><br>Steens Mountain, Oregon, US<br><br>42°N<br><br>2,500<br><br>8,200

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 2, below_treeline/Montane_ecosystems4.txt
> Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Ecosystems found in mountains<br><br><br>A subalpine lake in the Cascade Range, Washington, United States<br>Montane ecosystems are found on the slopes of mountains. The alpine climate in these regions strongly affects the ecosystem because temperatures fall as elevation increases, causing the ecosystem to stratify. This stratification is a crucial factor in shaping plant community, biodiversity, metabolic processes and ecosystem dynamics for montane ecosystems.[1] Dense montane forests are common at moderate elevations, due to moderate temperatures and high rainfall. At higher elevations, the climate is harsher, with lower temperatures and higher winds, preventing the growth of trees and causing the plant community to transition to montane grasslands and shrublands or alpine tundra. Due to the unique climate conditions of montane ecosystems, they contain increased numbers of endemic species. Montane ecosystems also exhibit variation in ecosystem services, which include carbon storage and water supply.[2]<br><br><br>Life zones[edit]<br>A stand of mountain birch at around 750 m in Trollheimen, typical of Scandinavian subalpine forests<br>As elevation increases, the climate becomes cooler, due to a decrease in atmospheric pressure and the adiabatic cooling of airmasses.[3] In middle latitudes, the change in climate by moving up 100 meters on a mountain is roughly equivalent to moving 80 kilometers (45 miles or 0.75° of latitude) towards the nearest pole.[4] The characteristic flora and fauna in the mountains tend to strongly depend on elevation, because of the change in climate. This dependency causes life zones to form: bands of similar ecosystems at similar elevations.[5]<br>One of the typical life zones on mountains is the montane forest: at moderate elevations, the rainfall and temperate climate encourages dense forests to grow. Holdridge defines the climate of montane forest as having a biotemperature of between 6 and 12 °C (43 and 54 °F), where biotemperature is the mean temperature considering temperatures below 0 °C (32 °F) to be 0 °C (32 °F).[5] Above the elevation of the montane forest, the trees thin out in the subalpine zone, become twisted krummholz, and eventually fail to grow. Therefore, montane forests often contain trees with twisted trunks. This phenomenon is observed due to the increase in the wind strength with the elevation. The elevation where trees fail to grow is called the tree line. The biotemperature of the subalpine zone is between 3 and 6 °C (37 and 43 °F).[5]<br>Above the tree line the ecosystem is called the alpine zone or alpine tundra, dominated by grasses and low-growing shrubs. The biotemperature of the alpine zone is between 1.5 and 3 °C (34.7 and 37.4 °F). Many different plant species live in the alpine environment, including perennial grasses, sedges, forbs, cushion plants, mosses, and lichens.[6] Alpine plants must adapt to the harsh conditions of the alpine environment, which include low temperatures, dryness, ultraviolet radiation, and a short growing season. Alpine plants display adaptations such as rosette structures, waxy surfaces, and hairy leaves. Because of the common characteristics of these zones, the World Wildlife Fund groups a set of related ecoregions into the "montane grassland and shrubland" biome. A region in the Hengduan Mountains adjoining Asia's Tibetan Plateau have been identified as the world's oldest continuous alpine ecosystem with a community of 3000 plant species, some of them continuously co-existing for 30 million years.[7]<br>Climates with biotemperatures below 1.5 °C (35 °F) tend to consist purely of rock and ice.[5]<br><br><br>Montane forests[edit]<br>Waimea Canyon, Hawaii, is known for its montane vegetation.<br>Montane forests occur between the submontane zone and the subalpine zone. The elevation at which one habitat changes to another varies across the globe, particularly by latitude. The upper limit of montane forests, the tree line, is often marked by a change to hardier species that occur in less dense stands.[8] For example, in the Sierra Nevada of California, the montane forest has dense stands of lodgepole pine and red fir, while the Sierra Nevada subalpine zone contains sparse stands of whitebark pine.[9]<br>The lower bound of the montane zone may be a "lower timberline" that separates the montane forest from drier steppe or desert region.[8]<br>Montane forests differ from lowland forests in the same area.[10] The climate of montane forests is colder than lowland climate at the same latitude, so the montane forests often have species typical of higher-latitude lowland forests.[11]  Humans can disturb montane forests through forestry and agriculture.[10] On isolated mountains, montane forests surrounded by treeless dry regions are typical "sky island" ecosystems.[12]<br><br>Temperate climate[edit]<br>Montane forests in temperate climate are typically one of temperate coniferous forest or temperate broadleaf and mixed forest, forest types that are well known from Europe and northeastern North America. Montane forests outside Europe tend to be more species-rich, because Europe during the Pleistocene offered smaller-area refugia from the glaciers.[13]<br><br>Temperate montane forest in Bavaria, Germany<br>Montane forests in temperate climate occur in Europe (the Alps, Carpathians, and more),[14] in North America (e.g.,Appalachians, Rocky Mountains, Cascade Range, and Sierra Nevada),[15] South America,[16] New Zealand,[17] and the Himalayas.<br>Climate change is predicted to affect temperate montane forests. For example, in the Pacific Northwest of North America, climate change may cause "potential reduced snowpack, higher levels of evapotranspiration, increased summer drought" which will negatively affect montane wetlands.[18]<br><br>Mediterranean climate[edit]<br>Iranian oak scrub in the Zagros Mountains<br>Montane forests in Mediterranean climate are warm and dry except in winter, when they are relatively wet and mild. Montane forests located in Mediterranean climates, known as oro-Mediterranean, exhibit towering trees alongside high biomass.[19] These forests are typically mixed conifer and broadleaf forests, with only a few conifer species. Pine and juniper are typical trees found in Mediterranean montane forests. The broadleaf trees show more variety and are often evergreen, e.g. evergreen oak.[citation needed]<br>This type of forest is found in the Mediterranean Basin, North Africa, Mexico and the southwestern US, Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan.[citation needed]<br><br><br>Subtropical and tropical climate[edit]<br>Tropical montane forest at around 2,000 m in Malaysia<br>In the tropics, montane forests can consist of broadleaf forest in addition to coniferous forest. One example of a tropical montane forest is a cloud forest, which gains its moisture from clouds and fog.[20][21][22] Cloud forests often exhibit an abundance of mosses covering the ground and vegetation, in which case they are also referred to as mossy forests. Mossy forests usually develop on the saddles of mountains, where moisture introduced by settling clouds is more effectively retained.[23] Depending on latitude, the lower limit of montane rainforests on large mountains is generally between 1,500 and 2,500 metres (4,900 and 8,200 ft) while the upper limit is usually from 2,400 to 3,300 metres (7,900 to 10,800 ft).[24]<br>Tropical montane forests might exhibit high sensitivity to climate change.[25][26] Climate change may cause variation in temperature, precipitation and humidity, which will cause stress on tropical montane forests. The predicted upcoming impacts of climate change might significantly affect biodiversity loss and might result in change of species range and community dynamics. Global climate models predict reduced cloudiness in the future. Reduction in cloudiness may already be affecting the Monteverde cloud forest in Costa Rica.[27][28]<br><br>Subalpine zone[edit]<br>The subalpine zone is the biotic zone immediately below the tree line around the world. In tropical regions of Southeast Asia the tree line may be above 4,000 m (13,000 ft),[29] whereas in Scotland it may be as low as 450 m (1,480 ft).[30] Species that occur in this zone depend on the location of the zone on the Earth, for example, Pinus mugo (scrub mountain pine) in Europe,[31] snow gum in Australia,[32] or subalpine larch, mountain hemlock and subalpine fir in western North America.[33]<br><br>Subalpine fir in Mount Rainier National Park, Washington, United States<br>Trees in the subalpine zone often become krummholz, that is, crooked wood, stunted and twisted in form. At tree line, tree seedlings may germinate on the lee side of rocks and grow only as high as the rock provides wind protection. Further growth is more horizontal than vertical, and additional rooting may occur where branches contact the soil. Snow cover may protect krummholz trees during the winter, but branches higher than wind-shelters or snow cover are usually destroyed. Well-established krummholz trees may be several hundred to a thousand years old.[34]<br>Meadows may be found in the subalpine zone. Tuolumne Meadows in the Sierra Nevada of California, is an example of a subalpine meadow.[35]<br>Example subalpine zones around the world include the French Prealps in Europe, the Sierra Nevada and Rocky Mountain subalpine zones in North America, and subalpine forests in the eastern Himalaya, western Himalaya, and Hengduan mountains of Asia.<br><br>Alpine grasslands and tundra[edit]<br>Main articles: Alpine tundra and Alpine plant<br>Alpine flora near Cascade Pass<br>Alpine grasslands and tundra lie above the tree line, in a world of intense radiation, wind, cold, snow, and ice. As a consequence, alpine vegetation is close to the ground and consists mainly of perennial grasses, sedges, and forbs. Annual plants are rare in this ecosystem and usually are only a few inches tall, with weak root systems.[36] Other common plant life-forms include prostrate shrubs; tussock-forming graminoids; and cryptogams, such as bryophytes and lichens.[6]: 280 <br>Plants have adapted to the harsh alpine environment. Cushion plants, looking like ground-hugging clumps of moss, escape the strong winds blowing a few inches above them. Many flowering plants of the alpine tundra have dense hairs on stems and leaves to provide wind protection or red-colored pigments capable of converting the sun's light rays into heat. Some plants take two or more years to form flower buds, which survive the winter below the surface and then open and produce fruit with seeds in the few weeks of summer.[37] Non-flowering lichens cling to rocks and soil. Their enclosed algal cells can photosynthesize at temperatures as low as −10 °C (14 °F),[38]  and the outer fungal layers can absorb more than their own weight in water.[39]<br><br>An alpine mire in the Swiss Alps<br>The adaptations for survival of drying winds and cold may make tundra vegetation seem very hardy, but in some respects the tundra is very fragile. Repeated footsteps often destroy tundra plants, leaving exposed soil to blow away, and recovery may take hundreds of years.[37]<br>Alpine meadows form where sediments from the weathering of rocks has produced soils well-developed enough to support grasses and sedges. Alpine grasslands are common enough around the world to be categorized as a biome by the World Wildlife Fund. The biome, called "Montane grasslands and shrublands", often evolved as virtual islands, separated from other montane regions by warmer, lower elevation regions, and are frequently home to many distinctive and endemic plants which evolved in response to the cool, wet climate and abundant sunlight.[citation needed]<br><br>Alpine landscape below Malyovitsa Peak, Rila Mountain, Bulgaria<br>The most extensive montane grasslands and shrublands occur in the Neotropical páramo of the Andes Mountains. This biome also occurs in the mountains of east and central Africa, Mount Kinabalu of Borneo, the highest elevations of the Western Ghats in South India and the Central Highlands of New Guinea. A unique feature of many wet tropical montane regions is the presence of giant rosette plants from a variety of plant families, such as Lobelia (Afrotropic), Puya (Neotropic), Cyathea (New Guinea), and Argyroxiphium (Hawaii).[citation needed]<br>Where conditions are drier, one finds montane grasslands, savannas, and woodlands, like the Ethiopian Highlands, and montane steppes, like the steppes of the Tibetan Plateau.[citation needed]<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Forest ecology<br>Tree line<br>Temperate coniferous forests<br>Ecology of the Rocky Mountains<br>Sierra Nevada lower montane forest<br>East African montane forests<br>Afromontane, a series of high-elevation regions in Africa<br>California montane chaparral and woodlands, an ecoregion.<br>Angolan montane forest-grassland mosaic, an ecoregion.<br>Australian Alps montane grasslands, an ecoregion.<br>South Western Ghats montane rain forests, an ecoregion<br>Polonyna (montane meadow)<br>Altitudinal zonation<br>Biome<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Mayor, Jordan R.; Sanders, Nathan J.; Classen, Aimée T.; Bardgett, Richard D.; Clément, Jean-Christophe; Fajardo, Alex; Lavorel, Sandra; Sundqvist, Maja K.; Bahn, Michael; Chisholm, Chelsea; Cieraad, Ellen (February 2017). "Elevation alters ecosystem properties across temperate tree lines globally". Nature. 542 (7639): 91–95. Bibcode:2017Natur.542...91M. doi:10.1038/nature21027. hdl:1874/394068. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 28117440. S2CID 4455333.
