# Query `74`

## Original Question

*In ocean spectra such as the Pierson Moskowitz or the JONSWAP models, the units of S(ω)
 are m2/(rad/s)
 (or whatever unit of measurement you are working in). Where does the m2
 come from and what does it mean physically?
I understand that the integral of the spectrum over all frequencies, i.e. ∫S(ω)dω
, is the variance which means that the integral should have m2
 units? Please correct me if I am wrong.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_50: 0.7421
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7421
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5385
map_cut_100: 0.5385
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) unit_of_wave_spectrum/45223.txt
> Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            9<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Yes, wave variance or energy spectrum, direcional or non-directional is positive-definite as @aretxabaleta said in the comment. <br>In linear water-wave theory, the surface elevation is described as a linear superposition of sinusoids:<br>$$<br>\eta(t) = \sum_{i-1}^{N}a_i \sin(f_i t + \phi_i)<br>$$<br>where $a_i$, $f_i$ and $\phi_i$ are the amplitude, frequency and phase, respectively, of each wave component $i$.<br>The most commonly used wave spectrum is the wave variance spectrum. Wave variance is:<br>$$<br>\langle\eta^2\rangle = \dfrac{1}{2N}\sum_{i=1}^{N}a_i^2 = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>and wave variance spectrum $F(f)$ is defined such that:<br>$$<br>F(f)\Delta{f}=\dfrac{a_i^2}{2} <br>$$<br>In the limit of $N \rightarrow \infty$ (continuous spectrum), the following holds:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(f)df = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>Being quadratic, both wave variance (spectrum integral) and individual discrete spectrum components are positive-definite.<br>Note that so far we implied non-directional frequency spectrum, i.e. spectrum defined in frequency space. It can be also defined in wavenumber $k$ space, and the following holds:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k)dk = \int_{0}^{\infty}F(f)df = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>$$<br>F(k)\Delta{k} = F(f)\Delta{f}<br>$$<br>$$<br>F(k) = F(f)c_g<br>$$<br>where $c_g$ is group velocity of an individual component.<br>The non-directional spectrum is simply an integral of directional spectrum over all directions:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k)dk = \int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k,\theta)dkd\theta<br>$$<br>Be careful about units here. All spectrum integrals must come up at $m^2$. Thus, $F(k)$ has units of $m^3$ and $F(k,\theta)$ has units of $m^3$ $rad^{-1}$.<br>If you are considering polar (spectral bins scaling with $k\theta$ instead of $\theta$) directional wavenumber spectrum such that:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k,\theta)k\ dk\ d\theta = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>then $F(k,\theta)$ has units of $m^4$ $rad^{-1}$.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Mar 13, 2015 at 16:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>milancurcicmilancurcic<br><br>4,98311 gold badge2828 silver badges4141 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>5<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you milancurcic for your detailed explanation. What exactly does "positive-definite" mean? You used that term a couple times. I have seen it used to describe matrices, but I don't think its definition in matrix theory is one you have in mind.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 2:01<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>It simply means the function is always real and greater than zero, see en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-definite_function. For example, any quantity at even power (2, 4, 6, etc.) is positive definite; in physics, mass and energy are positive-definite quantities; in meteorology and oceanography, humidity and salinity are positive-definite.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– milancurcic<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 2:51<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Okay, that makes sense - thank you. By the way, would you have any suggestions for a reference that has in-depth coverage of the wave spectra? The book chapter aretxabalet mentioned is good but it doesn't cover 2D spectrum, for instance.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 3:57<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The wave book by Ian Young is excellent but very expensive store.elsevier.com/product.jsp?isbn=9780080433172. The book by Komen et al. is both broad and thorough, but more accessible cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/…. There are many papers on the specifics of measuring or modeling directional wave properties, but I am not aware of any general or introductory text.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– milancurcic<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 19:30<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Alright thanks. If you ever write a book on the subject let us know :)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 20, 2015 at 0:46<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    Your Answer

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/Wave5_5.txt
> (in radians per meter, rad/m).<br>The phase speed gives you the speed at which a point of constant phase of the wave will travel for a discrete frequency. The angular frequency ω cannot be chosen independently from the wavenumber k, but both are related through the dispersion relationship:<br><br><br><br><br>ω<br>=<br>Ω<br>(<br>k<br>)<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \omega =\Omega (k).}<br>In the special case Ω(k) = ck, with c a constant, the waves are called non-

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/Wave_equation6_3.txt
> pi }}\iint _{S}\phi (x+ct\alpha,\,y+ct\beta )\,d\omega,}<br>where α and β are the first two coordinates on the unit sphere, and dω is the area element on the sphere. This integral may be rewritten as a double integral over the disc D with center (x, y) and radius ct:<br>u<br>(<br>t<br>,<br>x<br>,<br>y<br>)<br>=<br><br><br>1<br><br>2<br>π<br>c<br><br><br><br><br>∬<br><br>D

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) wind_movement/Brownian_motion4.txt
> {\displaystyle v_{\star }}<br><br> and V.[25] The Brownian velocity of Sgr A, the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy, is predicted from this formula to be less than 1 km s−1.[26]<br><br>Mathematics[edit]<br>Main article: Wiener process<br>An animated example of a Brownian motion-like random walk on a torus. In the scaling limit, random walk approaches the Wiener process according to Donsker's theorem.<br>In mathematics, Brownian motion is described by the Wiener process, a continuous-time stochastic process named in honor of Norbert Wiener. It is one of the best known Lévy processes (càdlàg stochastic processes with stationary independent increments) and occurs frequently in pure and applied mathematics, economics and physics.<br><br>A single realisation of three-dimensional Brownian motion for times 0 ≤ t ≤ 2<br>The Wiener process Wt is characterized by four facts:[27]<br><br>W0 = 0<br>Wt is almost surely continuous<br>Wt has independent increments<br><br><br><br><br><br>W<br><br>t<br><br><br>−<br><br>W<br><br>s<br><br><br>∼<br><br><br>N<br><br><br>(<br>0<br>,<br>t<br>−<br>s<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle W_{t}-W_{s}\sim {\mathcal {N}}(0,t-s)}<br><br> (for <br><br><br><br>0<br>≤<br>s<br>≤<br>t<br><br><br>{\displaystyle 0\leq s\leq t}<br><br>).<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>N<br><br><br>(<br>μ<br>,<br><br>σ<br><br>2<br><br><br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\mathcal {N}}(\mu ,\sigma ^{2})}<br><br> denotes the normal distribution with expected value μ and variance σ2. The condition that it has independent increments means that if <br><br><br><br>0<br>≤<br><br>s<br><br>1<br><br><br><<br><br>t<br><br>1<br><br><br>≤<br><br>s<br><br>2<br><br><br><<br><br>t<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle 0\leq s_{1}<t_{1}\leq s_{2}<t_{2}}<br><br> then <br><br><br><br><br>W<br><br><br>t<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>−<br><br>W<br><br><br>s<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle W_{t_{1}}-W_{s_{1}}}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br><br>W<br><br><br>t<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>−<br><br>W<br><br><br>s<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle W_{t_{2}}-W_{s_{2}}}<br><br> are independent random variables. In addition, for some filtration <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>F<br><br><br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}_{t}}<br><br>,  <br><br><br><br><br>W<br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle W_{t}}<br><br> is <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>F<br><br><br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}_{t}}<br><br> measurable for all <br><br><br><br>t<br>≥<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle t\geq 0}<br><br>.<br>An alternative characterisation of the Wiener process is the so-called Lévy characterisation that says that the Wiener process is an almost surely continuous martingale with W0 = 0 and quadratic variation <br><br><br><br>[<br><br>W<br><br>t<br><br><br>,<br><br>W<br><br>t<br><br><br>]<br>=<br>t<br><br><br>{\displaystyle [W_{t},W_{t}]=t}<br><br>.<br>A third characterisation is that the Wiener process has a spectral representation as a sine series whose coefficients are independent <br><br><br><br><br><br>N<br><br><br>(<br>0<br>,<br>1<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle {\mathcal {N}}(0,1)}<br><br> random variables. This representation can be obtained using the Kosambi–Karhunen–Loève theorem.<br>The Wiener process can be constructed as the scaling limit of a random walk, or other discrete-time stochastic processes with stationary independent increments. This is known as Donsker's theorem. Like the random walk, the Wiener process is recurrent in one or two dimensions (meaning that it returns almost surely to any fixed neighborhood of the origin infinitely often) whereas it is not recurrent in dimensions three and higher. Unlike the random walk, it is scale invariant.<br>The time evolution of the position of the Brownian particle itself can be described approximately by a Langevin equation, an equation which involves a random force field representing the effect of the thermal fluctuations of the solvent on the Brownian particle. On long timescales, the mathematical Brownian motion is well described by a Langevin equation. On small timescales, inertial effects are prevalent in the Langevin equation. However the mathematical Brownian motion is exempt of such inertial effects. Inertial effects have to be considered in the Langevin equation, otherwise the equation becomes singular.[clarification needed] so that simply removing the inertia term from this equation would not yield an exact description, but rather a singular behavior in which the particle doesn't move at all.[clarification needed]<br><br>Statistics[edit]<br>The Brownian motion can be modeled by a random walk.[28]<br>In the general case, Brownian motion is a Markov process and described by stochastic integral equations.[29]<br><br>Lévy characterisation[edit]<br>The French mathematician Paul Lévy proved the following theorem, which gives a necessary and sufficient condition for a continuous Rn-valued stochastic process X to actually be n-dimensional Brownian motion. Hence, Lévy's condition can actually be used as an alternative definition of Brownian motion.<br>Let X = (X1, ..., Xn) be a continuous stochastic process on a probability space (Ω, Σ, P) taking values in Rn. Then the following are equivalent:<br><br>X is a Brownian motion with respect to P, i.e., the law of X with respect to P is the same as the law of an n-dimensional Brownian motion, i.e., the push-forward measure X∗(P) is classical Wiener measure on C0([0, +∞); Rn).<br>both<br>X is a martingale with respect to P (and its own natural filtration); and<br>for all 1 ≤ i, j ≤ n, Xi(t)Xj(t) −δijt is a martingale with respect to P (and its own natural filtration), where δij denotes the Kronecker delta.<br>Spectral content[edit]<br>The spectral content of a stochastic process <br><br><br><br><br>X<br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle X_{t}}<br><br> can be found from the power spectral density, formally defined as<br><br><br><br><br>S<br>(<br>ω<br>)<br>=<br><br>lim<br><br>T<br>→<br>∞<br><br><br><br><br>1<br>T<br><br><br><br>E<br><br><br>{<br><br><br>|<br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>T<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>i<br>ω<br>t<br><br><br><br>X<br><br>t<br><br><br>d<br>t<br><br>|<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>}<br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S(\omega )=\lim _{T\to \infty }{\frac {1}{T}}\mathbb {E} \left\{\left|\int _{0}^{T}e^{i\omega t}X_{t}dt\right|^{2}\right\},}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mathbb {E} }<br><br> stands for the expected value. The power spectral density of Brownian motion is found to be[30]<br><br><br><br><br><br>S<br><br>B<br>M<br><br><br>(<br>ω<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>4<br>D<br><br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S_{BM}(\omega )={\frac {4D}{\omega ^{2}}}.}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>D<br><br><br>{\displaystyle D}<br><br> is the diffusion coefficient of <br><br><br><br><br>X<br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle X_{t}}<br><br>. For naturally occurring signals, the spectral content can be found from the power spectral density of a single realization, with finite available time, i.e.,<br><br><br><br><br><br>S<br><br>(<br>1<br>)<br><br><br>(<br>ω<br>,<br>T<br>)<br>=<br><br><br>1<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>|<br><br><br>∫<br><br>0<br><br><br>T<br><br><br><br>e<br><br>i<br>ω<br>t<br><br><br><br>X<br><br>t<br><br><br>d<br>t<br><br>|<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle S^{(1)}(\omega ,T)={\frac {1}{T}}\left|\int _{0}^{T}e^{i\omega t}X_{t}dt\right|^{2},}<br><br><br>which for an individual realization of a Brownian motion trajectory,[31] it is found to have expected value <br><br><br><br><br>μ<br><br>B<br>M<br><br><br>(<br>ω<br>,<br>T<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mu _{BM}(\omega ,T)}<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>μ<br><br>B<br>M<br><br><br>(<br>ω<br>,<br>T<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>4<br>D<br><br><br>ω<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>[<br><br>1<br>−<br><br><br><br>sin<br>⁡<br><br>(<br><br>ω<br>T<br><br>)<br><br><br><br>ω<br>T<br><br><br><br><br>]<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mu _{BM}(\omega ,T)={\frac {4D}{\omega ^{2}}}\left[1-{\frac {\sin \left(\omega T\right)}{\omega T}}\right]}<br><br><br>and variance <br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>B<br>M<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>ω<br>,<br>T<br>)<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \sigma _{BM}^{2}(\omega ,T)}<br><br>[31]<br><br><br><br><br><br>σ<br><br>S<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>f<br>,<br>T<br>)<br>=<br><br>E<br><br><br>{<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>S<br><br>T<br><br><br>(<br>j<br>)<br><br><br>(<br>f<br>)<br><br>)<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>}<br><br>−<br><br>μ<br><br>S<br><br><br>2<br><br><br>(<br>f<br>,<br>T<br>)<br>=<br><br><br><br>20<br><br>D<br><br>2

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) shape_of_waves/Wave5_4.txt
> , of various kinds of wave velocities, for a wave's phase and speed concerning energy (and information) propagation. The phase velocity is given as:<br><br><br><br><br><br>v<br><br><br>p<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>ω<br>k<br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle v_{\rm {p}}={\frac {\omega }{k}},}<br><br><br>where:<br>vp is the phase velocity (in meters per second, m/s),<br>ω is the angular frequency (in radians per second, rad/s),<br>k is the wavenumber


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, unit_of_wave_spectrum/45223.txt
> Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            9<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Yes, wave variance or energy spectrum, direcional or non-directional is positive-definite as @aretxabaleta said in the comment. <br>In linear water-wave theory, the surface elevation is described as a linear superposition of sinusoids:<br>$$<br>\eta(t) = \sum_{i-1}^{N}a_i \sin(f_i t + \phi_i)<br>$$<br>where $a_i$, $f_i$ and $\phi_i$ are the amplitude, frequency and phase, respectively, of each wave component $i$.<br>The most commonly used wave spectrum is the wave variance spectrum. Wave variance is:<br>$$<br>\langle\eta^2\rangle = \dfrac{1}{2N}\sum_{i=1}^{N}a_i^2 = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>and wave variance spectrum $F(f)$ is defined such that:<br>$$<br>F(f)\Delta{f}=\dfrac{a_i^2}{2} <br>$$<br>In the limit of $N \rightarrow \infty$ (continuous spectrum), the following holds:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(f)df = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>Being quadratic, both wave variance (spectrum integral) and individual discrete spectrum components are positive-definite.<br>Note that so far we implied non-directional frequency spectrum, i.e. spectrum defined in frequency space. It can be also defined in wavenumber $k$ space, and the following holds:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k)dk = \int_{0}^{\infty}F(f)df = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>$$<br>F(k)\Delta{k} = F(f)\Delta{f}<br>$$<br>$$<br>F(k) = F(f)c_g<br>$$<br>where $c_g$ is group velocity of an individual component.<br>The non-directional spectrum is simply an integral of directional spectrum over all directions:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k)dk = \int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k,\theta)dkd\theta<br>$$<br>Be careful about units here. All spectrum integrals must come up at $m^2$. Thus, $F(k)$ has units of $m^3$ and $F(k,\theta)$ has units of $m^3$ $rad^{-1}$.<br>If you are considering polar (spectral bins scaling with $k\theta$ instead of $\theta$) directional wavenumber spectrum such that:<br>$$<br>\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{\infty}F(k,\theta)k\ dk\ d\theta = \sigma^2<br>$$<br>then $F(k,\theta)$ has units of $m^4$ $rad^{-1}$.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Mar 13, 2015 at 16:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>milancurcicmilancurcic<br><br>4,98311 gold badge2828 silver badges4141 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>5<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you milancurcic for your detailed explanation. What exactly does "positive-definite" mean? You used that term a couple times. I have seen it used to describe matrices, but I don't think its definition in matrix theory is one you have in mind.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 2:01<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>It simply means the function is always real and greater than zero, see en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-definite_function. For example, any quantity at even power (2, 4, 6, etc.) is positive definite; in physics, mass and energy are positive-definite quantities; in meteorology and oceanography, humidity and salinity are positive-definite.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– milancurcic<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 2:51<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Okay, that makes sense - thank you. By the way, would you have any suggestions for a reference that has in-depth coverage of the wave spectra? The book chapter aretxabalet mentioned is good but it doesn't cover 2D spectrum, for instance.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 3:57<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The wave book by Ian Young is excellent but very expensive store.elsevier.com/product.jsp?isbn=9780080433172. The book by Komen et al. is both broad and thorough, but more accessible cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/…. There are many papers on the specifics of measuring or modeling directional wave properties, but I am not aware of any general or introductory text.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– milancurcic<br><br>Mar 19, 2015 at 19:30<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Alright thanks. If you ever write a book on the subject let us know :)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– user4624937<br><br>Mar 20, 2015 at 0:46<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                    Your Answer

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 25, unit_of_wave_spectrum/45222.txt
> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Is wave spectrum always positive and why?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>9 years ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>1 year, 4 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        713 times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            7<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Is the 2-D elevation wave spectrum (as a function of wavenumber and direction, with units of $m^4$) always positive? If so, why would that be the case?<br><br><br><br><br>waveswave-modeling<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Mar 13, 2015 at 16:46<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>milancurcic<br><br>4,98311 gold badge2828 silver badges4141 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Mar 13, 2015 at 14:52<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>user4624937user4624937<br><br>1,8111313 silver badges2020 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>All spectra are always positive, by definition. It considers the energy (elevation squared) and thus it has to be positive. An introduction to wave spectra can be found in: oceanworld.tamu.edu/resources/ocng_textbook/chapter16/…<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– arkaia<br><br>Mar 13, 2015 at 14:57<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                        1 Answer<br>                                    1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Sorted by:<br>        <br><br>            Reset to default<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                        Highest score (default)
