# Query `78`

## Original Question

*The question is clear enough in my opinion but, I've found out that if you redraw this picture, you'll notice that the Sun is as big as the Earth. But if you scale up the Sun to it's real size compared to the Earth, you would realize that the Earth would covered in daylight ALL THE TIME. So what's going on here?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.6000
P_10: 0.3000
P_25: 0.1200
P_50: 0.0800
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.1429
recall_5: 0.4286
recall_10: 0.4286
recall_25: 0.4286
recall_50: 0.5714
recall_100: 0.7143
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6399
ndcg_cut_10: 0.5187
ndcg_cut_25: 0.5187
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5741
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6168
map_cut_1: 0.1429
map_cut_5: 0.3238
map_cut_10: 0.3238
map_cut_25: 0.3238
map_cut_50: 0.3429
map_cut_100: 0.3512
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth3.txt
> Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            4<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>The Sun rays are not exactly parallel. They seem parallel as "Phonon" says, see her comments, but at a precise examination they are not so. Are you aware of the Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment? Look in Wikipedia at the site <br>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanbury_Brown_and_Twiss_effect, <br>and see the lower picture in that article. I copied the picture below. The experiment was done by observing the star Sirius but with our Sun it can be done also. In short, rays coming from a points $a$ on the star's disk, reach on the Earth two points, A and B, and so do rays from another point $b$ from the star's disk.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 26, 2014 at 11:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:28<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>SofiaSofia<br><br>6,82633 gold badges2020 silver badges3838 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>8<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you for the answer. Are those Red and green arrow composed of photons coming back to back?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:00<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>My mother-tongue is not English, s.t. what is "back-to-back? At the place A, the red ray and the green ray reach exactly the same point. Similarly at the place B. (The Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment was a great discovery. It showed that there is a correlation between what we get at the point A, and what we get at the point B, but this goes beyond the scope of your question.)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Let me say in other way, I hope the ray is composed of photons all moving in the same direction, one behind the other, did you also mean this? I have started understanding the complexity in finding the solution to the question, like photon clouds, path of photons, etc. I feel uncomfortable now whether ray is actually a straight line with photons being lined up one behind the other.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:35<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>No, it's not exact. By Huygens' principle, any point of the solar surface emits a spherical wave (well, solar surface is an imprecise term, but for our purpose it is good enough). Part of the wave enters the Sun and part goes outside the Sun, from which, further, an extremely small part comes to us. What I try to say is that the photons emitted by each such point are, each photon, a spherical wave. They are not small wave-packets, many, many of them  along each straight-line ray from the sun to us. No, the photons are big creatures growing wider and wider as the spherical wave expands.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 13:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>But, when touching an apparatus of ours, such a fat creature delivers it energy to one molecule on a photographic plate. This is why we draw a straight line between our apparatus and the point a  (or b ) on the Sun surface. (To be rigorous, the energy is delivered by some more complicated process than I said, but again, for our example, the delivery to a molecule is a good enough expression.)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 13:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 3 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            3<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Reading some of your earlier comments, it seems that there is a slight confusion at play here. From a comment on the original question:<br><br>I want to know how these photons are sent in that parallel order. As I understand or imagine, photons should be thrown randomly from Sun's surface.<br><br>Technically, you are correct: photons - including streams of photons following the same path, or "back-to-back" as you have said - are emitted in every direction from the surface of the sun. The sun is not a big flashlight, pointing only at the Earth; it's a big flame, shining all around it.<br>However, just because the photons leave the sun in all directions, does NOT mean that they strike the Earth from all directions. In order for that to happen, the sun would have to be all around us.<br>If you briefly imagine the Sun and Earth as points, and draw a quick sketch of the sun emitting straight rays of light, you will see that all the rays that actually strike the Earth (rather than missing it) are going the same direction - are parallel, in other words.<br>Now, the Earth is larger than a point, and the Sun is larger than the Earth, so the average of all the rays that leave the Sun and hit the Earth actually converge, but because the Earth is so small and so far away (i.e. it subtends a very small angle from the Sun) the rays are almost completely parallel, coming uniformly from the direction of the sun.<br>Concerning the question of how the clouds form sunbeams, the short answer is that they simply cast shadows that provide enough contrast so you can see the sunbeams. The long answer is that under a clear conditions the entire sky looks like sunbeams; sunlight scattering off of dust and gases in the atmosphere: and with the clouds in the way, only certain portions of the sky allow light through to the ground, so you see distinct lit beams along the path the light is taking from the sun to the ground, against a dark background.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 28, 2014 at 1:48<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 19:31<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AsherAsher<br><br>4,86711 gold badge1717 silver badges3030 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>7<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you for the answer. Do you agree that photons are thrown randomly? If you agree that, I see no way how photons can be sent back to back?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 2:01<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>What do you mean by "sent back to back?"<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Asher<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 5:09

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) dry_weather_river/what_are_the_differences_between_the_rainy_season_and_the_dry_season4_13.txt
> . In my opinion, despite the dust, the heat and the increased number of other visitors, if planned correctly, this is the optimum time of year to go, if you want to give yourself the best chance in seeing all the iconic species. To summerise,I would suggest anyone going on safari for the first time should go in the dry season, between the months of May-October. As it is your first time, you want to give yourself the best possible chance to see everything. If you are fortunate enough to have been on safari a number of times before, i would suggest

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth2.txt
> Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 30, 2014 at 1:20<br><br><br><br><br><br>Sensebe<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Dec 26, 2014 at 10:27<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>SensebeSensebe<br><br>5,7691414 gold badges5757 silver badges8686 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>9<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The image above is stolen from Nathaniel's answer to other question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:29<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Quick answer: Rays are going in all directions, but the further a planet is from the Sun, the smaller the arc of the Sun's rays that intercept the planet. The earth is far enough away for the rays to be considered parallel in this case.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ellie<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Phonon: I have seen your quick answer in other website! Just joking:) Let me be clear, I want to know how these photons are sent in that parallel order. As I understand or imagine, photons should be thrown randomly from Sun's surface.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:41<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>They are not sent in any parallel order, they're sent in every possible direction! The ones that are intercepted on earth's surface, correspond to a very small solid angle, for which all rays can be considered roughly as parallel.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ellie<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:44<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Phonon: they're sent in every possible direction- I hope your "they're" is nothing but photons, isn't it?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:53<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 4 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                        5 Answers<br>                                    5<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Sorted by:<br>        <br><br>            Reset to default<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                        Highest score (default)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            12<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Close to the surface of the Sun, the light it emits is not in parallel beams at all. It sends photons out in pretty much every direction at random, like this:<br><br>But the Sun is far away from Earth. Most of those photons don't reach the Earth because they're heading in the wrong direction. Only those photons that happen to be heading toward the Earth actually get there - and the photons that are heading to the Earth are all heading in more or less the same direction. So the photons that actually reach the Earth are all travelling in more or less parallel directions.<br>Below I've drawn the photons that reach the Earth in red, and the other photons in grey. You can see that the red ones are more or less parallel. (In reality, the Earth is further away than that, so the photons are more parallel than in the diagram.)<br><br>To answer your last question: sunbeams are formed when a gap in the clouds lets some light through, like this:<br><br>Photons from the Sun are always travelling in more or less the same direction, because they all came from the Sun, but it's easier to notice this when the light is concentrated in one particular place like this.<br>Finally, we have to explain why you're able to see the beam at all. This is just because some of the photons in the beam collide with particles in the atmosphere, which scatter them in all directions, and some of these scattered photons happen to hit your eye.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 30, 2014 at 2:03<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>N. VirgoN. Virgo<br><br>33.9k77 gold badges103103 silver badges153153 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>+1 Thank you for the answer. Diameter of earth is 12,742 km. The width of the photon cloud from the Sun is a small fraction of a millimeter [Extracted from the book "God does play dice with the universe" by Shan Gao]. Seeing these numbers in mm and km, I think, the second diagram seems to conclude wrong conclusions (though it is not to scale, scale might make a difference here).<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>If we consider scale, earth will be bigger and bigger than photon cloud (which seems to be opposite in the diagram including earth and sun), then the angles between photons (which seems to be very very less in the diagram) makes more difference w.r.t earth, so, even now I have trouble in understanding your view (that photons will be parallel as seen in the clouds diagram), what I think is photons should come in criss-cross form. Finally, once again, thank you for the effort.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I'm not familiar with the reference you cite, and the term "photon cloud" is not standard terminology, so I can't say anything about its width. You're right that the incoming photons criss-cross each other, but the point is that they only do it a bit. (If they didn't criss-cross each other, you wouldn't be able to form an image of the sun using a pin-hole camera.) The photons' paths differ from each other by at most the Sun's apparent diameter in the sky, which is about half a degree, so they're pretty close to parallel, which is why you can see sunbeams as distinct lines.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– N. Virgo<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:53<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The scattering of photons is not the correct explanation. That would not lead to well defined beams of light as in the picture.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– JezuzStardust<br><br>May 17, 2016 at 11:04

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) shale/Multi_user_dungeon4_48.txt
> playing, the world carried on without you. Because of this, I began creating my own text-based MUD, but I quickly realized that with so many of them out there, there was no way that mine would ever get noticed. So I began to search for a way to make mine stand out, and the obvious way, of course, was to add graphics. With my game, I was trying to emulate text MUDs at the time, purely as a hobby.<br><br>^ Funk, John (July 23, 2008). "WarCry and Jagex Talk RuneScape

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth4.txt
> $\begingroup$<br>Let me cut and paste what I said to Carlwithoft above in a comment: "What is bothering me is, by reactions in sun, (I think) each photon should be ejected in different directions, then there will be no chance in the formation of a ray (which I think to be line formed by photons one behind the other), so no question of whether rays are parallel or not. Though, I see some uncertainty going on here with rays and feel myself to be not accurate. I wish the discussion will become accurate as it goes." I hope this makes me clear. I look forward for your comments. Thank you.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:00<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:36<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I've also added a paragraph at the end of my answer that answers your question edit, I hope.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Asher<br><br>Dec 28, 2014 at 1:48<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 2 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            3<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Suns rays are isotropic, but if we assume a small area $dA$, then the rays would be perpendicular to that crossection, and parallel with eachother.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 29, 2014 at 1:16<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>peterh<br><br>8,2081212 gold badges4444 silver badges6464 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:08<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>        user68446user68446<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            0<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Light from the sun actually converges on the earth - the sun is about 220 Earths across, so light from one edge and light from the other edge must converge to reach the same point on Earth. The angle is small enough (about 0.5 degrees) that for most practical purposes we can consider the sun to be either a point source or a uniform flat source as needed.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:09<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>paulpaul<br><br>2,7741818 silver badges99 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The rays don't really "converge". Instead they both converge and diverge - depending on which pair of rays you take. Two rays form the opposite edges indeed converge on the Earth if we can see them. But those two emitted from a single point will actually diverge. Yet some of the rays can be parallel.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ruslan<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:18<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@paul: I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Highly active question. Earn 10 reputation (not counting the association bonus) in order to answer this question. The reputation requirement helps protect this question from spam and non-answer activity.<br>                                <br>                            <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged visible-lightsun or ask your own question.                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                            Featured on Meta<br>                        <br><br><br> <br><br>New Focus Styles & Updated Styling for Button Groups<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>Upcoming initiatives on Stack Overflow and across the Stack Exchange network<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>New image uploading service test


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, always_daytime/Astronomical_unit2.txt
> 9Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>10External links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Astronomical unit<br><br><br><br>112 languages<br><br><br><br><br>AfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAvañe'ẽAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGaelgGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIgboBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliKurdîLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىBahasa MelayuMirandésМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаSarduScotsSeelterskSicilianuSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语ייִדיש粵語中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Mean distance between Earth and the Sun<br>This article is about the unit of length. For constants, see astronomical constant. For units in astronomy, see astronomical system of units. For other uses of "AU", see Au.<br><br><br>Astronomical unitThe grey line indicates the Earth–Sun distance, which on average is about 1 astronomical unit.General informationUnit systemAstronomical system of units(Accepted for use with the SI)Unit oflengthSymbolau or AU or AUConversions<br>     1 au or AU or AU in ...... is equal to ...<br>   metric (SI) units   1.495978707×1011 m   imperial & US units   9.2956×107 mi   astronomical units   4.8481×10−6 pc   1.5813×10−5 ly   215.03 R☉<br>The astronomical unit (symbol: au,[1][2][3][4] or AU) is a unit of length defined to be exactly equal to 149,597,870,700 m.[5] Historically, the astronomical unit was originally conceived as the average Earth-Sun distance (the average of Earth's aphelion and perihelion), before its modern redefinition in 2012.<br>The astronomical unit is used primarily for measuring distances within the Solar System or around other stars. It is also a fundamental component in the definition of another unit of astronomical length, the parsec.[6] One au is equivalent to 499 light-seconds to within 10 parts per million.<br><br><br>History of symbol usage[edit]<br>A variety of unit symbols and abbreviations have been in use for the astronomical unit. In a 1976 resolution, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) had used the symbol A to denote a length equal to the astronomical unit.[7] In the astronomical literature, the symbol AU was (and remains) common. In 2006, the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) had recommended ua as the symbol for the unit, from the French "unité astronomique".[8] In the non-normative Annex C to ISO 80000-3:2006 (now withdrawn), the symbol of the astronomical unit was also ua.<br>In 2012, the IAU, noting "that various symbols are presently in use for the astronomical unit", recommended the use of the symbol "au".[1] The scientific journals published by the American Astronomical Society and the Royal Astronomical Society subsequently adopted this symbol.[3][9] In the 2014 revision and 2019 edition of the SI Brochure, the BIPM used the unit symbol "au".[10][11] ISO 80000-3:2019, which replaces ISO 80000-3:2006, does not mention the astronomical unit.[12][13]<br><br>Development of unit definition[edit]<br>See also: Earth's orbit<br>Earth's orbit around the Sun is an ellipse. The semi-major axis of this elliptic orbit is defined to be half of the straight line segment that joins the perihelion and aphelion. The centre of the Sun lies on this straight line segment, but not at its midpoint. Because ellipses are well-understood shapes, measuring the points of its extremes defined the exact shape mathematically, and made possible calculations for the entire orbit as well as predictions based on observation. In addition, it mapped out exactly the largest straight-line distance that Earth traverses over the course of a year, defining times and places for observing the largest parallax (apparent shifts of position) in nearby stars. Knowing Earth's shift and a star's shift enabled the star's distance to be calculated. But all measurements are subject to some degree of error or uncertainty, and the uncertainties in the length of the astronomical unit only increased uncertainties in the stellar distances. Improvements in precision have always been a key to improving astronomical understanding. Throughout the twentieth century, measurements became increasingly precise and sophisticated, and ever more dependent on accurate observation of the effects described by Einstein's theory of relativity and upon the mathematical tools it used.<br>Improving measurements were continually checked and cross-checked by means of improved understanding of the laws of celestial mechanics, which govern the motions of objects in space. The expected positions and distances of objects at an established time are calculated (in au) from these laws, and assembled into a collection of data called an ephemeris. NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory HORIZONS System provides one of several ephemeris computation services.[14]<br>In 1976, to establish an even precise measure for the astronomical unit, the IAU formally adopted a new definition. Although directly based on the then-best available observational measurements, the definition was recast in terms of the then-best mathematical derivations from celestial mechanics and planetary ephemerides. It stated that "the astronomical unit of length is that length (A) for which the Gaussian gravitational constant (k) takes the value 0.01720209895 when the units of measurement are the astronomical units of length, mass and time".[7][15][16] Equivalently, by this definition, one au is "the radius of an unperturbed circular Newtonian orbit about the sun of a particle having infinitesimal mass, moving with an angular frequency of 0.01720209895 radians per day";[17] or alternatively that length for which the heliocentric gravitational constant (the product GM☉) is equal to (0.01720209895)2 au3/d2, when the length is used to describe the positions of objects in the Solar System.<br>Subsequent explorations of the Solar System by space probes made it possible to obtain precise measurements of the relative positions of the inner planets and other objects by means of radar and telemetry. As with all radar measurements, these rely on measuring the time taken for photons to be reflected from an object. Because all photons move at the speed of light in vacuum, a fundamental constant of the universe, the distance of an object from the probe is calculated as the product of the speed of light and the measured time. However, for precision the calculations require adjustment for things such as the motions of the probe and object while the photons are transiting. In addition, the measurement of the time itself must be translated to a standard scale that accounts for relativistic time dilation. Comparison of the ephemeris positions with time measurements expressed in Barycentric Dynamical Time (TDB) leads to a value for the speed of light in astronomical units per day (of 86,400 s). By 2009, the IAU had updated its standard measures to reflect improvements, and calculated the speed of light at 173.1446326847(69) au/d (TDB).[18]<br>In 1983, the CIPM modified the International System of Units (SI) to make the metre defined as the distance travelled in a vacuum by light in 1 / 299,792,458 s. This replaced the previous definition, valid between 1960 and 1983, which was that the metre equalled a certain number of wavelengths of a certain emission line of krypton-86. (The reason for the change was an improved method of measuring the speed of light.) The speed of light could then be expressed exactly as c0 = 299,792,458 m/s, a standard also adopted by the IERS numerical standards.[19] From this definition and the 2009 IAU standard, the time for light to traverse an astronomical unit is found to be τA = 499.0047838061±0.00000001 s, which is slightly more than 8 minutes 19 seconds. By multiplication, the best IAU 2009 estimate was A = c0τA = 149,597,870,700±3 m,[20] based on a comparison of Jet Propulsion Laboratory and IAA–RAS ephemerides.[21][22][23]<br>In 2006, the BIPM reported a value of the astronomical unit as 1.49597870691(6)×1011 m.[8] In the 2014 revision of the SI Brochure, the BIPM recognised the IAU's 2012 redefinition of the astronomical unit as 149,597,870,700 m.[10]<br>This estimate was still derived from observation and measurements subject to error, and based on techniques that did not yet standardize all relativistic effects, and thus were not constant for all observers. In 2012, finding that the equalization of relativity alone would make the definition overly complex, the IAU simply used the 2009 estimate to redefine the astronomical unit as a conventional unit of length directly tied to the metre (exactly 149,597,870,700 m).[20][24] The new definition also recognizes as a consequence that the astronomical unit is now to play a role of reduced importance, limited in its use to that of a convenience in some applications.[20]<br><br><br><br>1 astronomical unit <br><br>= 149,597,870,700 metres (by definition)<br><br><br>= 149,597,870.7 kilometres (exactly)<br><br><br>≈ 92,955,807.2730 miles<br><br><br>≈ 499.004783836 light-seconds<br><br><br>≈ 1.58125074098×10−5 light-years<br><br><br>≈ 4.84813681113×10−6 parsecs<br><br>This definition makes the speed of light, defined as exactly 299,792,458 m/s, equal to exactly 299,792,458 × 86,400 ÷ 149,597,870,700 or about 173.144632674240 au/d, some 60 parts per trillion less than the 2009 estimate.<br><br>Usage and significance[edit]<br>With the definitions used before 2012, the astronomical unit was dependent on the heliocentric gravitational constant, that is the product of the gravitational constant, G, and the solar mass, M☉. Neither G nor M☉ can be measured to high accuracy separately, but the value of their product is known very precisely from observing the relative positions of planets (Kepler's third law expressed in terms of Newtonian gravitation). Only the product is required to calculate planetary positions for an ephemeris, so ephemerides are calculated in astronomical units and not in SI units.<br>The calculation of ephemerides also requires a consideration of the effects of general relativity. In particular, time intervals measured on Earth's surface (Terrestrial Time, TT) are not constant when compared with the motions of the planets: the terrestrial second (TT) appears to be longer near January and shorter near July when compared with the "planetary second" (conventionally measured in TDB). This is because the distance between Earth and the Sun is not fixed (it varies between 0.9832898912 and 1.0167103335 au) and, when Earth is closer to the Sun (perihelion), the Sun's gravitational field is stronger and Earth is moving faster along its orbital path. As the metre is defined in terms of the second and the speed of light is constant for all observers, the terrestrial metre appears to change in length compared with the "planetary metre" on a periodic basis.<br>The metre is defined to be a unit of proper length. Indeed, the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) notes that "its definition applies only within a spatial extent sufficiently small that the effects of the non-uniformity of the gravitational field can be ignored".[25] As such, a distance within the Solar System without specifying the frame of reference for the measurement is problematic. The 1976 definition of the astronomical unit was incomplete because it did not specify the frame of reference in which to apply the measurement, but proved practical for the calculation of ephemerides: a fuller definition that is consistent with general relativity was proposed,[26] and "vigorous debate" ensued[27] until August 2012 when the IAU adopted the current definition of 1 astronomical unit = 149,597,870,700 metres.<br>The astronomical unit is typically used for stellar system scale distances, such as the size of a protostellar disk or the heliocentric distance of an asteroid, whereas other units are used for other distances in astronomy. The astronomical unit is too small to be convenient for interstellar distances, where the parsec and light-year are widely used. The parsec (parallax arcsecond) is defined in terms of the astronomical unit, being the distance of an object with a parallax of 1″. The light-year is often used in popular works, but is not an approved non-SI unit and is rarely used by professional astronomers.[28]<br>When simulating a numerical model of the Solar System, the astronomical unit provides an appropriate scale that minimizes (overflow, underflow and truncation) errors in floating point calculations.<br><br>History[edit]<br>The book On the Sizes and Distances of the Sun and Moon, which is ascribed to Aristarchus, says the distance to the Sun is 18 to 20 times the distance to the Moon, whereas the true ratio is about 389.174. The latter estimate was based on the angle between the half-moon and the Sun, which he estimated as 87° (the true value being close to 89.853°). Depending on the distance that van Helden assumes Aristarchus used for the distance to the Moon, his calculated distance to the Sun would fall between 380 and 1,520 Earth radii.[29]<br>According to Eusebius in the Praeparatio evangelica (Book XV, Chapter 53), Eratosthenes found the distance to the Sun to be "σταδιων μυριαδας τετρακοσιας και οκτωκισμυριας" (literally "of stadia myriads 400 and 80,000″) but with the additional note that in the Greek text the grammatical agreement is between myriads (not stadia) on the one hand and both 400 and 80,000 on the other, as in Greek, unlike English, all three (or all four if one were to include stadia) words are inflected. This has been translated either as 4080000 stadia (1903 translation by Edwin Hamilton Gifford), or as 804,000,000 stadia (edition of Édourad des Places [de], dated 1974–1991). Using the Greek stadium of 185 to 190 metres,[30][31] the former translation comes to 754,800 km to 775,200 km, which is far too low, whereas the second translation comes to 148.7 to 152.8 billion metres (accurate within 2%).[32] Hipparchus also gave an estimate of the distance of Earth from the Sun, quoted by Pappus as equal to 490 Earth radii. According to the conjectural reconstructions of Noel Swerdlow and G. J. Toomer, this was derived from his assumption of a "least perceptible" solar parallax of 7′.[33]<br>A Chinese mathematical treatise, the Zhoubi Suanjing (c. 1st century BCE), shows how the distance to the Sun can be computed geometrically, using the different lengths of the noontime shadows observed at three places 1,000 li apart and the assumption that Earth is flat.[34]<br><br><br><br>Distance to the Sunestimated by<br><br>Estimate<br><br>In au<br><br>Percentage error<br><br><br>Solarparallax<br><br>Earthradii<br><br><br>Aristarchus (3rd century BCE)(in On Sizes)  <br><br>13′ 24″–7′ 12″<br><br>256.5–477.8<br><br>0.011–0.020<br><br>-98.9% to -98%<br><br><br>Archimedes (3rd century BCE)(in The Sand Reckoner)<br><br>21″<br><br>10,000<br><br>0.426<br><br>-57.4%<br><br><br>Hipparchus (2nd century BCE)<br><br>7′<br><br>490<br><br>0.021<br><br>-97.9%<br><br><br>Posidonius (1st century BCE)(quoted by coeval Cleomedes)<br><br>21″<br><br>10,000<br><br>0.426

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth3.txt
> Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            4<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>The Sun rays are not exactly parallel. They seem parallel as "Phonon" says, see her comments, but at a precise examination they are not so. Are you aware of the Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment? Look in Wikipedia at the site <br>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanbury_Brown_and_Twiss_effect, <br>and see the lower picture in that article. I copied the picture below. The experiment was done by observing the star Sirius but with our Sun it can be done also. In short, rays coming from a points $a$ on the star's disk, reach on the Earth two points, A and B, and so do rays from another point $b$ from the star's disk.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 26, 2014 at 11:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:28<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>SofiaSofia<br><br>6,82633 gold badges2020 silver badges3838 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>8<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you for the answer. Are those Red and green arrow composed of photons coming back to back?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:00<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>My mother-tongue is not English, s.t. what is "back-to-back? At the place A, the red ray and the green ray reach exactly the same point. Similarly at the place B. (The Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment was a great discovery. It showed that there is a correlation between what we get at the point A, and what we get at the point B, but this goes beyond the scope of your question.)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Let me say in other way, I hope the ray is composed of photons all moving in the same direction, one behind the other, did you also mean this? I have started understanding the complexity in finding the solution to the question, like photon clouds, path of photons, etc. I feel uncomfortable now whether ray is actually a straight line with photons being lined up one behind the other.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:35<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>No, it's not exact. By Huygens' principle, any point of the solar surface emits a spherical wave (well, solar surface is an imprecise term, but for our purpose it is good enough). Part of the wave enters the Sun and part goes outside the Sun, from which, further, an extremely small part comes to us. What I try to say is that the photons emitted by each such point are, each photon, a spherical wave. They are not small wave-packets, many, many of them  along each straight-line ray from the sun to us. No, the photons are big creatures growing wider and wider as the spherical wave expands.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 13:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>But, when touching an apparatus of ours, such a fat creature delivers it energy to one molecule on a photographic plate. This is why we draw a straight line between our apparatus and the point a  (or b ) on the Sun surface. (To be rigorous, the energy is delivered by some more complicated process than I said, but again, for our example, the delivery to a molecule is a good enough expression.)<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sofia<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 13:13<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 3 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            3<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Reading some of your earlier comments, it seems that there is a slight confusion at play here. From a comment on the original question:<br><br>I want to know how these photons are sent in that parallel order. As I understand or imagine, photons should be thrown randomly from Sun's surface.<br><br>Technically, you are correct: photons - including streams of photons following the same path, or "back-to-back" as you have said - are emitted in every direction from the surface of the sun. The sun is not a big flashlight, pointing only at the Earth; it's a big flame, shining all around it.<br>However, just because the photons leave the sun in all directions, does NOT mean that they strike the Earth from all directions. In order for that to happen, the sun would have to be all around us.<br>If you briefly imagine the Sun and Earth as points, and draw a quick sketch of the sun emitting straight rays of light, you will see that all the rays that actually strike the Earth (rather than missing it) are going the same direction - are parallel, in other words.<br>Now, the Earth is larger than a point, and the Sun is larger than the Earth, so the average of all the rays that leave the Sun and hit the Earth actually converge, but because the Earth is so small and so far away (i.e. it subtends a very small angle from the Sun) the rays are almost completely parallel, coming uniformly from the direction of the sun.<br>Concerning the question of how the clouds form sunbeams, the short answer is that they simply cast shadows that provide enough contrast so you can see the sunbeams. The long answer is that under a clear conditions the entire sky looks like sunbeams; sunlight scattering off of dust and gases in the atmosphere: and with the clouds in the way, only certain portions of the sky allow light through to the ground, so you see distinct lit beams along the path the light is taking from the sun to the ground, against a dark background.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 28, 2014 at 1:48<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 19:31<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>AsherAsher<br><br>4,86711 gold badge1717 silver badges3030 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>7<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Thank you for the answer. Do you agree that photons are thrown randomly? If you agree that, I see no way how photons can be sent back to back?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 2:01<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>What do you mean by "sent back to back?"<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Asher<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 5:09

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 4, always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth4.txt
> $\begingroup$<br>Let me cut and paste what I said to Carlwithoft above in a comment: "What is bothering me is, by reactions in sun, (I think) each photon should be ejected in different directions, then there will be no chance in the formation of a ray (which I think to be line formed by photons one behind the other), so no question of whether rays are parallel or not. Though, I see some uncertainty going on here with rays and feel myself to be not accurate. I wish the discussion will become accurate as it goes." I hope this makes me clear. I look forward for your comments. Thank you.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:00<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:36<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I've also added a paragraph at the end of my answer that answers your question edit, I hope.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Asher<br><br>Dec 28, 2014 at 1:48<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 2 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            3<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Suns rays are isotropic, but if we assume a small area $dA$, then the rays would be perpendicular to that crossection, and parallel with eachother.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 29, 2014 at 1:16<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>peterh<br><br>8,2081212 gold badges4444 silver badges6464 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:08<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>        user68446user68446<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            0<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Light from the sun actually converges on the earth - the sun is about 220 Earths across, so light from one edge and light from the other edge must converge to reach the same point on Earth. The angle is small enough (about 0.5 degrees) that for most practical purposes we can consider the sun to be either a point source or a uniform flat source as needed.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 26, 2014 at 11:09<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>paulpaul<br><br>2,7741818 silver badges99 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>3<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The rays don't really "converge". Instead they both converge and diverge - depending on which pair of rays you take. Two rays form the opposite edges indeed converge on the Earth if we can see them. But those two emitted from a single point will actually diverge. Yet some of the rays can be parallel.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ruslan<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 12:18<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@paul: I have edited the question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 27, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Add a comment<br> | <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Highly active question. Earn 10 reputation (not counting the association bonus) in order to answer this question. The reputation requirement helps protect this question from spam and non-answer activity.<br>                                <br>                            <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged visible-lightsun or ask your own question.                                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                            Featured on Meta<br>                        <br><br><br> <br><br>New Focus Styles & Updated Styling for Button Groups<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>Upcoming initiatives on Stack Overflow and across the Stack Exchange network<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br>New image uploading service test

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 29, always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth1.txt
> What makes Sun's light travel as parallel beams towards earth? - Physics Stack Exchange<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Stack Exchange Network<br><br>						Stack Exchange network consists of 183 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.<br>					<br>Visit Stack Exchange<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Loading…<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                Tour<br>                                <br>                                    Start here for a quick overview of the site<br>                                <br><br><br><br><br>                            Help Center<br>                            <br>                                Detailed answers to any questions you might have<br>                            <br><br><br><br><br>                                        Meta<br>                                        <br>                                            Discuss the workings and policies of this site<br>                                        <br><br><br><br><br>                                    About Us<br>                                    <br>                                        Learn more about Stack Overflow the company, and our products<br>                                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>current community<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Physics<br>        <br><br><br><br>help<br>chat<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Physics Meta<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>your communities            <br><br><br><br>Sign up or log in to customize your list.                <br><br><br>more stack exchange communities<br><br>company blog<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Log in<br><br>Sign up<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Home<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Questions<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Tags<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Users<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Unanswered<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>        <br>Explore Teams<br>Create a free Team<br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.<br>            Explore Teams<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Teams<br>Q&A for work<br>Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.<br><br>                    Learn more about Teams<br>                <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>What makes Sun's light travel as parallel beams towards earth?<br><br><br><br>        Ask Question<br>    <br><br><br><br><br><br>Asked<br>9 years, 3 months ago<br><br><br>Modified<br>7 years, 7 months ago<br><br><br>Viewed<br>                        26k times<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            11<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br><br>Sun's light appear to travel as parallel beams towards earth $_1$. Sun produces electromagnetic radiations through pp chain and other reactions in Photosphere $_2$.    <br>I don't see whether these reactions send photons in that neatly arranged parallel rays, or else any other effects make the rays have such parallel beautiful motion.  <br>So what makes Sun's light travel as parallel beams towards earth?   <br>Links: A very good news for those who wants to desperately know the answer. I have replaced the word  "ray" with "beam", as both have difference in their meaning. I have extracted a small passage from the webpage Light beam - Wikipedia :  <br><br>A light beam or beam of light is a directional projection of light energy radiating from a light source. Sunlight forms a light beam (a sunbeam) when filtered through media such as clouds, foliage, or windows.   <br><br>If the passage is saying truth, we are only left with the question, how clouds (the question is concerned with this) form beams?<br><br>Reference: $_1$ Crepuscular rays-Wikipedia $_2$ Sun-Wikipedia<br><br><br><br><br>visible-lightsun

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 2, always_daytime/what_makes_suns_light_travel_as_parallel_beams_towards_earth2.txt
> Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this question<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>edited Dec 30, 2014 at 1:20<br><br><br><br><br><br>Sensebe<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            asked Dec 26, 2014 at 10:27<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>SensebeSensebe<br><br>5,7691414 gold badges5757 silver badges8686 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>9<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The image above is stolen from Nathaniel's answer to other question.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:29<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>Quick answer: Rays are going in all directions, but the further a planet is from the Sun, the smaller the arc of the Sun's rays that intercept the planet. The earth is far enough away for the rays to be considered parallel in this case.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ellie<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Phonon: I have seen your quick answer in other website! Just joking:) Let me be clear, I want to know how these photons are sent in that parallel order. As I understand or imagine, photons should be thrown randomly from Sun's surface.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:41<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>They are not sent in any parallel order, they're sent in every possible direction! The ones that are intercepted on earth's surface, correspond to a very small solid angle, for which all rays can be considered roughly as parallel.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Ellie<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:44<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>@Phonon: they're sent in every possible direction- I hope your "they're" is nothing but photons, isn't it?<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 26, 2014 at 10:53<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> | <br>Show 4 more comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>                                        5 Answers<br>                                    5<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            Sorted by:<br>        <br><br>            Reset to default<br>        <br><br><br><br><br>                        Highest score (default)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date modified (newest first)<br>                    <br><br>                        Date created (oldest first)<br>                    <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            12<br>        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br><br>Close to the surface of the Sun, the light it emits is not in parallel beams at all. It sends photons out in pretty much every direction at random, like this:<br><br>But the Sun is far away from Earth. Most of those photons don't reach the Earth because they're heading in the wrong direction. Only those photons that happen to be heading toward the Earth actually get there - and the photons that are heading to the Earth are all heading in more or less the same direction. So the photons that actually reach the Earth are all travelling in more or less parallel directions.<br>Below I've drawn the photons that reach the Earth in red, and the other photons in grey. You can see that the red ones are more or less parallel. (In reality, the Earth is further away than that, so the photons are more parallel than in the diagram.)<br><br>To answer your last question: sunbeams are formed when a gap in the clouds lets some light through, like this:<br><br>Photons from the Sun are always travelling in more or less the same direction, because they all came from the Sun, but it's easier to notice this when the light is concentrated in one particular place like this.<br>Finally, we have to explain why you're able to see the beam at all. This is just because some of the photons in the beam collide with particles in the atmosphere, which scatter them in all directions, and some of these scattered photons happen to hit your eye.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Share<br><br><br>Cite<br><br><br>Improve this answer<br><br><br><br>                        Follow<br>                        <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>            answered Dec 30, 2014 at 2:03<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>N. VirgoN. Virgo<br><br>33.9k77 gold badges103103 silver badges153153 bronze badges<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\endgroup$<br><br>4<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>+1 Thank you for the answer. Diameter of earth is 12,742 km. The width of the photon cloud from the Sun is a small fraction of a millimeter [Extracted from the book "God does play dice with the universe" by Shan Gao]. Seeing these numbers in mm and km, I think, the second diagram seems to conclude wrong conclusions (though it is not to scale, scale might make a difference here).<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:37<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>If we consider scale, earth will be bigger and bigger than photon cloud (which seems to be opposite in the diagram including earth and sun), then the angles between photons (which seems to be very very less in the diagram) makes more difference w.r.t earth, so, even now I have trouble in understanding your view (that photons will be parallel as seen in the clouds diagram), what I think is photons should come in criss-cross form. Finally, once again, thank you for the effort.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– Sensebe<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:45<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>1<br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>I'm not familiar with the reference you cite, and the term "photon cloud" is not standard terminology, so I can't say anything about its width. You're right that the incoming photons criss-cross each other, but the point is that they only do it a bit. (If they didn't criss-cross each other, you wouldn't be able to form an image of the sun using a pin-hole camera.) The photons' paths differ from each other by at most the Sun's apparent diameter in the sky, which is about half a degree, so they're pretty close to parallel, which is why you can see sunbeams as distinct lines.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– N. Virgo<br><br>Dec 30, 2014 at 9:53<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>$\begingroup$<br>The scattering of photons is not the correct explanation. That would not lead to well defined beams of light as in the picture.<br>$\endgroup$<br><br>– JezuzStardust<br><br>May 17, 2016 at 11:04

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked 85, always_daytime/Astronomical_unit3.txt
> -57.4%<br><br><br>Ptolemy (2nd century)<br><br>2′ 50″<br><br>1,210<br><br>0.052<br><br>-94.8%<br><br><br>Godefroy Wendelin (1635)<br><br>15″<br><br>14,000<br><br>0.597<br><br>-40.3%<br><br><br>Jeremiah Horrocks (1639)<br><br>15″<br><br>14,000<br><br>0.597<br><br>-40.3%<br><br><br>Christiaan Huygens (1659)<br><br>8.2″<br><br>25,086[35]<br><br>1.068<br><br>6.8%<br><br><br>Cassini & Richer (1672)<br><br>9.5″<br><br>21,700<br><br>0.925<br><br>-7.5%<br><br><br>Flamsteed (1672)<br><br>9.5″<br><br>21,700<br><br>0.925<br><br>-7.5%<br><br><br>Jérôme Lalande (1771)<br><br>8.6″<br><br>24,000<br><br>1.023<br><br>2.3%<br><br><br>Simon Newcomb (1895)<br><br>8.80″<br><br>23,440<br><br>0.9994<br><br>-0.06%<br><br><br>Arthur Hinks (1909)<br><br>8.807″<br><br>23,420<br><br>0.9985<br><br>-0.15%<br><br><br>H. Spencer Jones (1941)<br><br>8.790″<br><br>23,466<br><br>1.0005<br><br>0.05%<br><br><br>modern astronomy<br><br>8.794143″<br><br>23,455<br><br>1.0000<br><br><br><br>In the 2nd century CE, Ptolemy estimated the mean distance of the Sun as 1,210 times Earth's radius.[36][37] To determine this value, Ptolemy started by measuring the Moon's parallax, finding what amounted to a horizontal lunar parallax of 1° 26′, which was much too large. He then derived a maximum lunar distance of 64+1/6 Earth radii. Because of cancelling errors in his parallax figure, his theory of the Moon's orbit, and other factors, this figure was approximately correct.[38][39] He then measured the apparent sizes of the Sun and the Moon and concluded that the apparent diameter of the Sun was equal to the apparent diameter of the Moon at the Moon's greatest distance, and from records of lunar eclipses, he estimated this apparent diameter, as well as the apparent diameter of the shadow cone of Earth traversed by the Moon during a lunar eclipse. Given these data, the distance of the Sun from Earth can be trigonometrically computed to be 1,210 Earth radii. This gives a ratio of solar to lunar distance of approximately 19, matching Aristarchus's figure. Although Ptolemy's procedure is theoretically workable, it is very sensitive to small changes in the data, so much so that changing a measurement by a few per cent can make the solar distance infinite.[38]<br>After Greek astronomy was transmitted to the medieval Islamic world, astronomers made some changes to Ptolemy's cosmological model, but did not greatly change his estimate of the Earth–Sun distance. For example, in his introduction to Ptolemaic astronomy, al-Farghānī gave a mean solar distance of 1,170 Earth radii, whereas in his zij, al-Battānī used a mean solar distance of 1,108 Earth radii. Subsequent astronomers, such as al-Bīrūnī, used similar values.[40] Later in Europe, Copernicus and Tycho Brahe also used comparable figures (1,142 and 1,150 Earth radii), and so Ptolemy's approximate Earth–Sun distance survived through the 16th century.[41]<br>Johannes Kepler was the first to realize that Ptolemy's estimate must be significantly too low (according to Kepler, at least by a factor of three) in his Rudolphine Tables (1627). Kepler's laws of planetary motion allowed astronomers to calculate the relative distances of the planets from the Sun, and rekindled interest in measuring the absolute value for Earth (which could then be applied to the other planets). The invention of the telescope allowed far more accurate measurements of angles than is possible with the naked eye. Flemish astronomer Godefroy Wendelin repeated Aristarchus’ measurements in 1635, and found that Ptolemy's value was too low by a factor of at least eleven.<br>A somewhat more accurate estimate can be obtained by observing the transit of Venus.[42] By measuring the transit in two different locations, one can accurately calculate the parallax of Venus and from the relative distance of Earth and Venus from the Sun, the solar parallax α (which cannot be measured directly due to the brightness of the Sun[43]). Jeremiah Horrocks had attempted to produce an estimate based on his observation of the 1639 transit (published in 1662), giving a solar parallax of 15″, similar to Wendelin's figure. The solar parallax is related to the Earth–Sun distance as measured in Earth radii by<br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br>=<br>cot<br>⁡<br>α<br>≈<br>1<br><br><br><br>radian<br><br><br><br>/<br><br>α<br>.<br><br><br>{\displaystyle A=\cot \alpha \approx 1\,{\textrm {radian}}/\alpha .}<br><br><br>The smaller the solar parallax, the greater the distance between the Sun and Earth: a solar parallax of 15″ is equivalent to an Earth–Sun distance of 13,750 Earth radii.<br>Christiaan Huygens believed that the distance was even greater: by comparing the apparent sizes of Venus and Mars, he estimated a value of about 24,000 Earth radii,[35] equivalent to a solar parallax of 8.6″. Although Huygens' estimate is remarkably close to modern values, it is often discounted by historians of astronomy because of the many unproven (and incorrect) assumptions he had to make for his method to work; the accuracy of his value seems to be based more on luck than good measurement, with his various errors cancelling each other out.<br><br>Transits of Venus across the face of the Sun were, for a long time, the best method of measuring the astronomical unit, despite the difficulties (here, the so-called "black drop effect") and the rarity of observations.<br>Jean Richer and Giovanni Domenico Cassini measured the parallax of Mars between Paris and Cayenne in French Guiana when Mars was at its closest to Earth in 1672. They arrived at a figure for the solar parallax of 9.5″, equivalent to an Earth–Sun distance of about 22,000 Earth radii. They were also the first astronomers to have access to an accurate and reliable value for the radius of Earth, which had been measured by their colleague Jean Picard in 1669 as 3,269,000 toises. This same year saw another estimate for the astronomical unit by John Flamsteed, which accomplished it alone by measuring the martian diurnal parallax.[44] Another colleague, Ole Rømer, discovered the finite speed of light in 1676: the speed was so great that it was usually quoted as the time required for light to travel from the Sun to the Earth, or "light time per unit distance", a convention that is still followed by astronomers today.<br>A better method for observing Venus transits was devised by James Gregory and published in his Optica Promata (1663). It was strongly advocated by Edmond Halley[45] and was applied to the transits of Venus observed in 1761 and 1769, and then again in 1874 and 1882. Transits of Venus occur in pairs, but less than one pair every century, and observing the transits in 1761 and 1769 was an unprecedented international scientific operation including observations by James Cook and Charles Green from Tahiti. Despite the Seven Years' War, dozens of astronomers were dispatched to observing points around the world at great expense and personal danger: several of them died in the endeavour.[46] The various results were collated by Jérôme Lalande to give a figure for the solar parallax of 8.6″. Karl Rudolph Powalky had made an estimate of 8.83″ in 1864.[47]<br><br><br><br>Date<br><br>Method<br><br>A/Gm<br><br>Uncertainty<br><br><br>1895<br><br>aberration<br><br>149.25<br><br>0.12<br><br><br>1941<br><br>parallax<br><br>149.674<br><br>0.016<br><br><br>1964<br><br>radar<br><br>149.5981<br><br>0.001<br><br><br>1976<br><br>telemetry<br><br>149.597870<br><br>0.000001<br><br><br>2009<br><br>telemetry<br><br>149.597870700<br><br>0.000000003<br><br>Another method involved determining the constant of aberration. Simon Newcomb gave great weight to this method when deriving his widely accepted value of 8.80″ for the solar parallax (close to the modern value of 8.794143″), although Newcomb also used data from the transits of Venus. Newcomb also collaborated with A. A. Michelson to measure the speed of light with Earth-based equipment; combined with the constant of aberration (which is related to the light time per unit distance), this gave the first direct measurement of the Earth–Sun distance in metres. Newcomb's value for the solar parallax (and for the constant of aberration and the Gaussian gravitational constant) were incorporated into the first international system of astronomical constants in 1896,[48] which remained in place for the calculation of ephemerides until 1964.[49] The name "astronomical unit" appears first to have been used in 1903.[50][failed verification]<br>The discovery of the near-Earth asteroid 433 Eros and its passage near Earth in 1900–1901 allowed a considerable improvement in parallax measurement.[51] Another international project to measure the parallax of 433 Eros was undertaken in 1930–1931.[43][52]<br>Direct radar measurements of the distances to Venus and Mars became available in the early 1960s. Along with improved measurements of the speed of light, these showed that Newcomb's values for the solar parallax and the constant of aberration were inconsistent with one another.[53]<br><br>Developments[edit]<br>The astronomical unit is used as the baseline of the triangle to measure stellar parallaxes (distances in the image are not to scale)<br>The unit distance A (the value of the astronomical unit in metres) can be expressed in terms of other astronomical constants:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br>3<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br>G<br><br>M<br><br>⊙<br><br><br><br>D<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>k<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br>,<br><br><br>{\displaystyle A^{3}={\frac {GM_{\odot }D^{2}}{k^{2}}},}<br><br><br>where G is the Newtonian constant of gravitation, M☉ is the solar mass, k is the numerical value of Gaussian gravitational constant and D is the time period of one day.[1]<br>The Sun is constantly losing mass by radiating away energy,[54] so the orbits of the planets are steadily expanding outward from the Sun. This has led to calls to abandon the astronomical unit as a unit of measurement.[55]

### GROUND TRUTH 6, ranked not in top 100, always_daytime/Astronomical_unit4.txt
> As the speed of light has an exact defined value in SI units and the Gaussian gravitational constant k is fixed in the astronomical system of units, measuring the light time per unit distance is exactly equivalent to measuring the product G×M☉ in SI units. Hence, it is possible to construct ephemerides entirely in SI units, which is increasingly becoming the norm.<br>A 2004 analysis of radiometric measurements in the inner Solar System suggested that the secular increase in the unit distance was much larger than can be accounted for by solar radiation, +15±4 metres per century.[56][57]<br>The measurements of the secular variations of the astronomical unit are not confirmed by other authors and are quite controversial.<br>Furthermore, since 2010, the astronomical unit has not been estimated by the planetary ephemerides.[58]<br><br>Examples[edit]<br>The following table contains some distances given in astronomical units. It includes some examples with distances that are normally not given in astronomical units, because they are either too short or far too long. Distances normally change over time. Examples are listed by increasing distance.<br><br><br><br>Object or length<br><br>Length or distance in au<br><br>Range<br><br>Comment and reference point<br><br>Refs<br><br><br>Light-second<br><br>0.002<br><br>–<br><br>distance light travels in one second<br><br>–<br><br><br>Lunar distance<br><br>0.0026<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from Earth (which the Apollo missions took about 3 days to travel)<br><br>–<br><br><br>Solar radius<br><br>0.005<br><br>–<br><br>radius of the Sun (695500 km, 432450 mi, a hundred times the radius of Earth or ten times the average radius of Jupiter)<br><br>–<br><br><br>Light-minute<br><br>0.12<br><br>–<br><br>distance light travels in one minute<br><br>–<br><br><br>Mercury<br><br>0.39<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Venus<br><br>0.72<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Earth<br><br>1.00<br><br>–<br><br>average distance of Earth's orbit from the Sun (sunlight travels for 8 minutes and 19 seconds before reaching Earth)<br><br>–<br><br><br>Mars<br><br>1.52<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Jupiter<br><br>5.2<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Light-hour<br><br>7.2<br><br>–<br><br>distance light travels in one hour<br><br>–<br><br><br>Saturn<br><br>9.5<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Uranus<br><br>19.2<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Kuiper belt<br><br>30<br><br>–<br><br>Inner edge begins at approximately 30 au<br><br>[59]<br><br><br>Neptune<br><br>30.1<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Eris<br><br>67.8<br><br>–<br><br>average distance from the Sun<br><br>–<br><br><br>Voyager 2<br><br>134<br><br>–<br><br>distance from the Sun in August 2023<br><br>[60]<br><br><br>Voyager 1<br><br>161<br><br>–<br><br>distance from the Sun in August 2023<br><br>[60]<br><br><br>Light-day<br><br>173<br><br>–<br><br>distance light travels in one day<br><br>–<br><br><br>Light-year<br><br>63,241<br><br>–<br><br>distance light travels in one Julian year (365.25 days)<br><br>–<br><br><br>Oort cloud<br><br>75,000<br><br>± 25,000<br><br>distance of the outer limit of Oort cloud from the Sun (estimated, corresponds to 1.2 light-years)<br><br>–<br><br><br>Parsec<br><br>206,265<br><br>–<br><br>one parsec. The parsec is defined in terms of the astronomical unit, is used to measure distances beyond the scope of the Solar System and is about 3.26 light-years: 1 pc = 1 au/tan(1″)<br><br>[6][61]<br><br><br>Proxima Centauri<br><br>268,000<br><br>± 126<br><br>distance to the nearest star to the Solar System<br><br>–<br><br><br>Galactic Centre of the Milky Way<br><br>1,700,000,000<br><br>–<br><br>distance from the Sun to the centre of the Milky Way
