# Query `80`

## Original Question

*What is a temperature inversion and can it trap smog/pollution?
Just as the title says, I heard about this term but am not sure how it works.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.1667
recall_5: 0.1667
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3392
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4104
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4104
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4104
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4104
map_cut_1: 0.1667
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.2222
map_cut_25: 0.2222
map_cut_50: 0.2222
map_cut_100: 0.2222
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) temperature_inversion/Inversion_(meteorology)4.txt
> ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Deviation from the normal change of an atmospheric property with altitude<br><br><br>This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Inversion" meteorology – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Temperature inversion in an urban environment<br>Temperature inversion in the Lake District, England, forms clouds at a low level beneath clear skies.<br>Smoke rising in Lochcarron, Scotland, is stopped by an overlying layer of warmer air (2006).<br>Smog trapped over the city of Almaty, Kazakhstan during a temperature inversion.<br>Smoke-filled canyons in northern Arizona, 2019. During morning and evening hours, dense smoke often settles in low-lying areas and becomes trapped due to temperature inversions—when a layer within the lower atmosphere acts as a lid and prevents vertical mixing of the air. Steep canyon walls act as a horizontal barrier, concentrating the smoke within the deepest parts of the canyon and increasing the strength of the inversion.[1]<br>In meteorology, an inversion (or "temperature inversion") is a layer of warmer air held above colder air.  Normally, air temperature gradually decreases as altitude increases, but in an inversion this relationship is reversed.[2]<br>An inversion traps air pollution, such as smog, close to the ground. An inversion can also suppress convection by acting as a "cap". If this cap is broken for any of several reasons, convection of any moisture present can then erupt into violent thunderstorms.  Temperature inversion can cause freezing rain in cold climates.<br><br><br>Normal atmospheric conditions[edit]<br>Usually, within the lower atmosphere (the troposphere) the air near the surface of the Earth is warmer than the air above it, largely because the atmosphere is heated from below as solar radiation warms the Earth's surface, which in turn then warms the layer of the atmosphere directly above it, e.g., by thermals (convective heat transfer).[3] Air temperature also decreases with an increase in altitude because higher air is at lower pressure, and lower pressure results in a lower temperature, following the ideal gas law and adiabatic lapse rate.<br><br>Description[edit]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) temperature_inversion/Smog3_7.txt
> in neighboring agricultural areas since the 1980s. The atmospheric pollution levels of Los Angeles, Beijing, Delhi, Lahore, Mexico City, Tehran and other cities are often increased by an inversion that traps pollution close to the ground. The developing smog is usually toxic to humans and can cause severe sickness, a shortened life span, or premature death.<br><br><br>Etymology[edit]<br>Coinage of the term "smog" has been attributed to Henry Antoine Des Voeux in his 1905 paper, "Fog and Smoke" for a meeting of the Public Health Congress. The 26

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) temperature_inversion/Smog3_5.txt
> as being either summer smog or winter smog. Summer smog is primarily associated with the photochemical formation of ozone. During the summer season when the temperatures are warmer and there is more sunlight present, photochemical smog is the dominant type of smog formation. During the winter months when the temperatures are colder, and atmospheric inversions are common, there is an increase in coal and other fossil fuel usage to heat homes and buildings. These combustion emissions, together with the lack of pollutant dispersion under inversions, characterize winter smog formation. Smog formation in general relies on both primary

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) temperature_inversion/Smog4_2.txt
> 4 and 5). The presence of a temperature inversion layer is another important factor. That is because it prevents the vertical convective mixing of the air and thus allows the pollutants, including ozone, to accumulate near the ground level, which again favors the formation of photochemical smog.<br>There are certain reactions that can limit the formation of O3 in smog. The main limiting reaction in polluted areas is:<br>(7) <br><br><br><br><br><br>NO<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br>+<br>OH<br><br>⋅<br><br>+<br>M<br>⟶<br><br>H

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) temperature_inversion/vocs_smog_html3_0.txt
> Volatile Organic Compounds and Smog<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>What are VOCs?<br>How do VOCs cause smog?<br>How does smog affect us?<br>Where can I get information about the air quality outside?<br>What has the Government done to reduce VOC emissions and smog?<br>What is the VOC Regulation?<br>How is VOC emission from petrol filling station being controlled?<br>What will the Government do to


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 5, temperature_inversion/Inversion_(meteorology)5.txt
> Height (y-axis) versus temperature (x-axis) under normal atmospheric conditions (black line). When the layer from 6–8 kilometres (4–5 miles) (designated A-B) descends dry adiabatically , the result is the inversion seen near the ground at 1–2 kilometres (1–1 mile) (C-D).<br>Klagenfurter Becken (Austria) in December 2015: on Mount Goritschnigkogel there is a distinct inverse hoarfrost margin.<br>Under the right conditions, the normal vertical temperature gradient is inverted so that the air is colder near the surface of the Earth. This can occur when, for example, a warmer, less-dense air mass moves over a cooler, denser air mass. This type of inversion occurs in the vicinity of warm fronts, and also in areas of oceanic upwelling such as along the California coast in the United States. With sufficient humidity in the cooler layer, fog is typically present below the inversion cap. An inversion is also produced whenever radiation from the surface of the earth exceeds the amount of radiation received from the sun, which commonly occurs at night, or during the winter when the sun is very low in the sky. This effect is virtually confined to land regions as the ocean retains heat far longer. In the polar regions during winter, inversions are nearly always present over land.<br>A warmer air mass moving over a cooler one can "shut off" any convection which may be present in the cooler air mass: this is known as a capping inversion. However, if this cap is broken, either by extreme convection overcoming the cap or by the lifting effect of a front or a mountain range, the sudden release of bottled-up convective energy—like the bursting of a balloon—can result in severe thunderstorms. Such capping inversions typically precede the development of tornadoes in the Midwestern United States. In this instance, the "cooler" layer is quite warm but is still denser and usually cooler than the lower part of the inversion layer capping it.[4]<br><br>Subsidence inversion[edit]<br>An inversion can develop aloft as a result of air gradually sinking over a wide area and being warmed by adiabatic compression, usually associated with subtropical high-pressure areas.[5] A stable marine layer may then develop over the ocean as a result. As this layer moves over progressively warmer waters, however, turbulence within the marine layer can gradually lift the inversion layer to higher altitudes, and eventually even pierce it, producing thunderstorms, and under the right circumstances, tropical cyclones. The accumulated smog and dust under the inversion quickly taints the sky reddish, easily seen on sunny days.<br><br>Atmospheric consequences[edit]<br>A Fata Morgana (or mirage) of a ship is due to an inversion (2008).<br>Winter smoke in Shanghai, China, with a clear border-layer for the vertical air-spread (1993).<br>A temperature inversion in Bratislava, Slovakia, viewing the top of Nový Most (2005).<br>Inversion-created smog in Nowa Ruda, Poland, 2017<br>Temperature inversion phenomenon in the early morning near Tawau, Sabah, Malaysia where smoke that was emitted from an oil palm mill stayed close to the ground. The wind carried the smoke in the direction of the nearby settlement to the middle-right of the photo (August 2023).<br>Temperature inversions stop atmospheric convection (which is normally present) from happening in the affected area and can lead to high concentrations of atmospheric pollutants. Cities especially suffer from the effects of temperature inversions because they both produce more atmospheric pollutants and have higher thermal masses than rural areas, resulting in more frequent inversions with higher concentrations of pollutants. The effects are even more pronounced when a city is surrounded by hills or mountains since they form an additional barrier to air circulation. During a severe inversion, trapped air pollutants form a brownish haze that can cause respiratory problems. The Great Smog of 1952 in London, England, is one of the most serious examples of such an inversion. It was blamed for an estimated 10,000 to 12,000 deaths.[6]<br>Sometimes the inversion layer is at a high enough altitude that cumulus clouds can condense but can only spread out under the inversion layer. This decreases the amount of sunlight reaching the ground and prevents new thermals from forming. As the clouds disperse, sunny weather replaces cloudiness in a cycle that can occur more than once a day.<br><br>Wave propagation[edit]<br>Light[edit]<br>As the temperature of air increases, the index of refraction of air decreases, a side effect of hotter air being less dense. Normally this results in distant objects being shortened vertically, an effect that is easy to see at sunset when the sun is visible as an oval. In an inversion, the normal pattern is reversed, and distant objects are instead stretched out or appear to be above the horizon, leading to the phenomenon known as a Fata Morgana or mirage.<br>Inversions can magnify the so-called "green flash"—a phenomenon occurring at sunrise or sunset, usually visible for a few seconds, in which the sun's green light is isolated due to dispersion.[7] The shorter wavelength is refracted most, with the blue component of sunlight "completely scattered out by Rayleigh scattering", making green the first or last light from the upper rim of the solar disc to be seen.[8]<br><br>Radio waves[edit]<br>Main article: Super refraction<br>Very high frequency radio waves can be refracted by inversions, making it possible to hear FM radio or watch VHF low-band television broadcasts from long distances on foggy nights. The signal, which would normally be refracted up and away into space, is instead refracted down towards the earth by the temperature-inversion boundary layer. This phenomenon is called tropospheric ducting. Along coastlines during Autumn and Spring, due to multiple stations being simultaneously present because of reduced propagation losses, many FM radio stations are plagued by severe signal degradation disrupting reception.<br>In higher frequencies such as microwaves, such refraction causes multipath propagation and fading.<br><br>Sound[edit]<br>When an inversion layer is present, if a sound or explosion occurs at ground level, the sound wave is refracted by the temperature gradient (which affects sound speed) and returns to the ground. The sound, therefore, travels much better than normal. This is noticeable in areas around airports, where the sound of aircraft taking off and landing often can be heard at greater distances around dawn than at other times of day, and inversion thunder which is significantly louder and travels further than when it is produced by lightning strikes under normal conditions.[9]<br><br>Shock waves[edit]<br>The shock wave from an explosion can be reflected by an inversion layer in much the same way as it bounces off the ground in an air-burst and can cause additional damage as a result. This phenomenon killed two people in the Soviet RDS-37 nuclear test when a building collapsed.[10][11]<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Weather portal<br>Aerosol<br>Particulates<br>Index of meteorology articles<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Smoke Filled Canyons, Arizona<br><br>^ Service, NOAA's National Weather. "Glossary – NOAA's National Weather Service". w1.weather.gov. Retrieved January 19, 2017.<br><br>^ Nagle, Garrett, and Paul Guinness. Cambridge International A and AS Level Geography. Hodder Education, 2011. 41. Print.<br><br>^ Oke, Tim; Mills, Gerald; Christen, Andrea; Voogt, James (2017). Urban Climates (1st ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 30–35. doi:10.1017/9781139016476. ISBN 978-0-521-84950-0. Retrieved June 21, 2022.<br><br>^ Wallace and Hobbs (2006) Atmospheric Science: An Introductory Survey<br><br>^ Bell, M.L.; Davis, D.L.; Fletcher, T. (2004). "A Retrospective Assessment of Mortality from the London Smog Episode of 1952: The Role of Influenza and Pollution". Environ Health Perspect. 112 (1, January): 6–8. doi:10.1289/ehp.6539. PMC 1241789. PMID 14698923.<br><br>^ ben Aroush, Tomer; Boulahjar, Saber; Lipson, Stephen G (December 13, 2017). "Observing the green flash in the laboratory". European Journal of Physics. 39 (1): 2. doi:10.1088/1361-6404/aa90f5. S2CID 125714499. Retrieved June 21, 2022.<br><br>^ ben Aroush, Tomer; Boulahjar, Saber; Lipson, Stephen G (December 13, 2017). "Observing the green flash in the laboratory". European Journal of Physics. 39 (1): 2. doi:10.1088/1361-6404/aa90f5. S2CID 125714499. Retrieved June 21, 2022.<br><br>^ Dean A. Pollet and Micheal M. Kordich, User's guide for the Sound Intensity Prediction System (SIPS) as installed at the Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology Division (Naveodtechdiv). Systems Department February 2000. DTIC.mil<br><br>^ Johnston, Wm. Robert. "RDS-37 Nuclear Test, 1955". Retrieved April 11, 2014.<br><br>^ "RDS-37: The Soviet Hydrogen Bomb". Retrieved December 26, 2015.<br><br><br>External links[edit]<br>'Fire inversions' lock smoke in valleys<br> The dictionary definition of temperature inversion at Wiktionary<br><br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons has media related to Meteorological inversion.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Inversion_(meteorology)&oldid=1217814492"<br>Categories: Atmospheric thermodynamicsRadio frequency propagationHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse mdy dates from July 2012Articles needing additional references from May 2020All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles that are too technical from July 2022All articles that are too technicalCommons category link is on Wikidata<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 8 April 2024, at 01:30 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, temperature_inversion/Inversion_(meteorology)4.txt
> ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Deviation from the normal change of an atmospheric property with altitude<br><br><br>This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Inversion" meteorology – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>Temperature inversion in an urban environment<br>Temperature inversion in the Lake District, England, forms clouds at a low level beneath clear skies.<br>Smoke rising in Lochcarron, Scotland, is stopped by an overlying layer of warmer air (2006).<br>Smog trapped over the city of Almaty, Kazakhstan during a temperature inversion.<br>Smoke-filled canyons in northern Arizona, 2019. During morning and evening hours, dense smoke often settles in low-lying areas and becomes trapped due to temperature inversions—when a layer within the lower atmosphere acts as a lid and prevents vertical mixing of the air. Steep canyon walls act as a horizontal barrier, concentrating the smoke within the deepest parts of the canyon and increasing the strength of the inversion.[1]<br>In meteorology, an inversion (or "temperature inversion") is a layer of warmer air held above colder air.  Normally, air temperature gradually decreases as altitude increases, but in an inversion this relationship is reversed.[2]<br>An inversion traps air pollution, such as smog, close to the ground. An inversion can also suppress convection by acting as a "cap". If this cap is broken for any of several reasons, convection of any moisture present can then erupt into violent thunderstorms.  Temperature inversion can cause freezing rain in cold climates.<br><br><br>Normal atmospheric conditions[edit]<br>Usually, within the lower atmosphere (the troposphere) the air near the surface of the Earth is warmer than the air above it, largely because the atmosphere is heated from below as solar radiation warms the Earth's surface, which in turn then warms the layer of the atmosphere directly above it, e.g., by thermals (convective heat transfer).[3] Air temperature also decreases with an increase in altitude because higher air is at lower pressure, and lower pressure results in a lower temperature, following the ideal gas law and adiabatic lapse rate.<br><br>Description[edit]

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, temperature_inversion/Lapse_rate2.txt
> 6See also<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>7Notes<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>8References<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>9Further reading<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>10External links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle the table of contents<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Lapse rate<br><br><br><br>14 languages<br><br><br><br><br>العربيةDeutschEspañolفارسی한국어HrvatskiItalianoNederlands日本語Norsk nynorskSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиУкраїнська粵語中文<br><br>Edit links<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Vertical rate of change of temperature in atmosphere<br>Higher Czarny Staw pod Rysami lake (elevation 1,583 metres (5,194 ft)) is still frozen as the lower Morskie Oko lake has already almost melted (elevation 1,395 metres (4,577 ft). Photo from Polish side of the Tatra mountains, May 2019.<br>The lapse rate is the rate at which an atmospheric variable, normally temperature in Earth's atmosphere, falls with altitude.[1][2] Lapse rate arises from the word lapse, in the sense of a gradual fall.  In dry air, the adiabatic lapse rate (i.e., decrease in temperature of a parcel of air that rises in the atmosphere without exchange energy with surrounding air) is 9.8 °C/km (5.4 °F per 1,000 ft). The saturated adiabatic lapse rate (SALR), or moist adiabatic lapse rate (MALR), is the decrease in temperature of a parcel of water-saturated air that rises in the atmosphere. It varies with the temperature and pressure of the parcel and is often in the range 3.6 to 9.2 °C/km (2 to 5 °F/1000 ft), as obtained from the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The environmental lapse rate is the decrease in temperature of air with altitude for a specific time and place (see below). It can be highly variable between circumstances.<br>Lapse rate corresponds to the vertical component of the spatial gradient of temperature. Although this concept is most often applied to the Earth's troposphere, it can be extended to any gravitationally supported parcel of gas.<br><br><br>Definition[edit]<br>A formal definition from the Glossary of Meteorology[3] is:<br><br>The decrease of an atmospheric variable with height, the variable being temperature unless otherwise specified.<br>Typically, the lapse rate is the negative of the rate of temperature change with altitude change:<br><br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br>=<br>−<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>z<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma =-{\frac {\mathrm {d} T}{\mathrm {d} z}}}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma }<br><br> (sometimes <br><br><br><br>L<br><br><br>{\displaystyle L}<br><br>) is the lapse rate given in units of temperature divided by units of altitude, T is temperature, and z is altitude.[a]<br><br>Convection and adiabatic expansion[edit]<br>Emagram diagram showing variation of dry adiabats (bold lines) and moist adiabats (dash lines) according to pressure and temperature<br>The temperature profile of the atmosphere is a result of an interaction between thermal conduction, thermal radiation, and natural convection. Sunlight hits the surface of the earth (land and sea) and heats them. They then heat the air above the surface. If radiation were the only way to transfer energy from the ground to space, the greenhouse effect of gases in the atmosphere would keep the ground at roughly 333 K (60 °C; 140 °F).[6]: 60 <br>However, when air is hot, it tends to expand, which lowers its density. Thus, hot air tends to rise and carry internal energy upward. This is the process of convection. Vertical convective motion stops when a parcel of air at a given altitude has the same density as the other air at the same elevation.<br>When a parcel of air expands, it pushes on the air around it, doing thermodynamic work. An expansion or contraction of an air parcel without inward or outward heat transfer is an adiabatic process. Air has low thermal conductivity, and the bodies of air involved are very large, so transfer of heat by conduction is negligibly small. Also, in such expansion and contraction, intra-atmospheric radiative heat transfer is relatively slow and so negligible. Since the upward-moving and expanding parcel does work but gains no heat, it loses internal energy so that its temperature decreases.<br>The adiabatic process for air has a characteristic temperature-pressure curve, so the process determines the lapse rate. When the air contains little water, this lapse rate is known as the dry adiabatic lapse rate: the rate of temperature decrease is 9.8 °C/km (5.4 °F per 1,000 ft) (3.0 °C/1,000 ft). The reverse occurs for a sinking parcel of air.[7]<br>When the lapse rate is less than the adiabatic lapse rate the atmosphere is stable and convection will not occur.[6]: 63 <br>Only the troposphere (up to approximately 12 kilometres (39,000 ft) of altitude) in the Earth's atmosphere undergoes convection: the stratosphere does not generally convect.[8] However, some exceptionally energetic convection processes, such as volcanic eruption columns and overshooting tops associated with severe supercell thunderstorms, may locally and temporarily inject convection through the tropopause and into the stratosphere.<br>Energy transport in the atmosphere is more complex than the interaction between radiation and convection. Thermal conduction, evaporation, condensation, precipitation all influence the temperature profile, as described below.<br><br>Mathematics of the adiabatic lapse rate[edit]<br>Simplified graph of atmospheric lapse rate near sea level<br>The following calculations use a very simple model of an atmosphere. In this model, an atmosphere is either dry or moist and exists within a still vertical column at equilibrium.

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, temperature_inversion/Lapse_rate3.txt
> Dry adiabatic lapse rate[edit]<br>Thermodynamics defines an adiabatic process as:<br><br><br><br><br><br>P<br><br><br>d<br><br>V<br>=<br>−<br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br><br>γ<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle P\,\mathrm {d} V=-{\frac {V\,\mathrm {d} P}{\gamma }}}<br><br><br>the first law of thermodynamics can be written as<br><br><br><br><br><br>m<br><br>c<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br>−<br><br><br><br>V<br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br><br>γ<br><br><br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle mc_{\text{v}}\,\mathrm {d} T-{\frac {V\,\mathrm {d} P}{\gamma }}=0}<br><br><br>Also, since the density <br><br><br><br>ρ<br>=<br>m<br><br>/<br><br>V<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \rho =m/V}<br><br> and <br><br><br><br>γ<br>=<br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br>/<br><br><br>c<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \gamma =c_{\text{p}}/c_{\text{v}}}<br><br>, we can show that:<br><br><br><br><br><br>ρ<br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br>−<br><br>d<br><br>P<br>=<br>0<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \rho c_{\text{p}}\,\mathrm {d} T-\mathrm {d} P=0}<br><br><br>where <br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{\text{p}}}<br><br> is the specific heat at constant pressure.<br>Assuming an atmosphere in hydrostatic equilibrium:[9]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>P<br>=<br>−<br>ρ<br>g<br><br><br>d<br><br>z<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \mathrm {d} P=-\rho g\,\mathrm {d} z}<br><br><br>where g is the standard gravity. Combining these two equations to eliminate the pressure, one arrives at the result for the dry adiabatic lapse rate (DALR),[10]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>d<br><br><br>=<br>−<br><br><br><br><br>d<br><br>T<br><br><br><br>d<br><br>z<br><br><br><br>=<br><br><br>g<br><br>c<br><br>p<br><br><br><br><br>=<br>9.8<br><br> <br><br>∘<br><br><br><br>C<br><br><br>/<br><br><br>km<br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma _{\text{d}}=-{\frac {\mathrm {d} T}{\mathrm {d} z}}={\frac {g}{c_{\text{p}}}}=9.8\ ^{\circ }{\text{C}}/{\text{km}}}<br><br><br>Moist adiabatic lapse rate[edit]<br>The presence of water within the atmosphere (usually the troposphere) complicates the process of convection. Water vapor contains latent heat of vaporization. As a parcel of air rises and cools, it eventually becomes saturated; that is, the vapor pressure of water in equilibrium with liquid water has decreased (as temperature has decreased) to the point where it is equal to the actual vapor pressure of water. With further decrease in temperature the water vapor in excess of the equilibrium amount condenses, forming cloud, and releasing heat (latent heat of condensation). Before saturation, the rising air follows the dry adiabatic lapse rate. After saturation, the rising air follows the moist (or wet) adiabatic lapse rate.[11] The release of latent heat is an important source of energy in the development of thunderstorms.<br>While the dry adiabatic lapse rate is a constant 9.8 °C/km (5.4 °F per 1,000 ft, 3 °C/1,000 ft), the moist adiabatic lapse rate varies strongly with temperature. A typical value is around 5 °C/km, (9 °F/km, 2.7 °F/1,000 ft, 1.5 °C/1,000 ft).[12] The formula for the moist adiabatic lapse rate is given by:[13]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>w

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, temperature_inversion/Lapse_rate4.txt
> =<br>g<br><br><br><br><br>(<br><br>1<br>+<br><br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>v<br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sd<br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br>(<br><br><br>c<br><br>pd<br><br><br>+<br><br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>v<br><br><br>2<br><br><br><br>r<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sw<br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br>2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma _{\text{w}}=g\,{\frac {\left(1+{\dfrac {H_{\text{v}}\,r}{R_{\text{sd}}\,T}}\right)}{\left(c_{\text{pd}}+{\dfrac {H_{\text{v}}^{2}\,r}{R_{\text{sw}}\,T^{2}}}\right)}}}<br><br><br>where:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br>w<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma _{\text{w}}}<br><br>,<br><br>wet adiabatic lapse rate, K/m<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>g<br><br><br>{\displaystyle g}<br><br>,<br><br>Earth's gravitational acceleration = 9.8076 m/s2<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>H<br><br>v<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle H_{v}}<br><br>,<br><br>heat of vaporization of water = 2501000 J/kg<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sd<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle R_{\text{sd}}}<br><br>,<br><br>specific gas constant of dry air = 287 J/kg·K<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sw<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle R_{\text{sw}}}<br><br>,<br><br>specific gas constant of water vapour = 461.5 J/kg·K<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ϵ<br>=<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sd<br><br><br><br>R<br><br>sw<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle \epsilon ={\frac {R_{\text{sd}}}{R_{\text{sw}}}}}<br><br>,<br><br>the dimensionless ratio of the specific gas constant of dry air to the specific gas constant for water vapour = 0.622<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>e<br><br><br>{\displaystyle e}<br><br>,<br><br>the water vapour pressure of the saturated air<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>r<br>=<br><br><br><br>ϵ<br>e<br><br><br>p<br>−<br>e<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle r={\frac {\epsilon e}{p-e}}}<br><br>,<br><br>the mixing ratio of the mass of water vapour to the mass of dry air[14]

### GROUND TRUTH 5, ranked not in top 100, temperature_inversion/Lapse_rate5.txt
> p<br><br><br>{\displaystyle p}<br><br>,<br><br>the pressure of the saturated air<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>T<br><br><br>{\displaystyle T}<br><br>,<br><br>temperature of the saturated air, K<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>c<br><br>pd<br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle c_{\text{pd}}}<br><br>,<br><br>the specific heat of dry air at constant pressure, = 1003.5 J/kg·K<br><br>Environmental lapse rate[edit]<br>The environmental lapse rate (ELR), is the rate of decrease of temperature with altitude in the stationary atmosphere at a given time and location. As an average, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) defines an international standard atmosphere (ISA) with a temperature lapse rate of 6.50 °C/km[15] (3.56 °F or 1.98 °C/1,000 ft) from sea level to 11 km (36,090 ft or 6.8 mi). From 11 km up to 20 km (65,620 ft or 12.4 mi), the constant temperature is −56.5 °C (−69.7 °F), which is the lowest assumed temperature in the ISA. The standard atmosphere contains no moisture. Unlike the idealized ISA, the temperature of the actual atmosphere does not always fall at a uniform rate with height. For example, there can be an inversion layer in which the temperature increases with altitude.<br><br>Effect on weather[edit]<br>This section relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources.Find sources: "Lapse rate" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2022)<br>The latent heat of vaporization adds energy to clouds and storms.<br>The varying environmental lapse rates throughout the Earth's atmosphere are of critical importance in meteorology, particularly within the troposphere. They are used to determine if the parcel of rising air will rise high enough for its water to condense to form clouds, and, having formed clouds, whether the air will continue to rise and form bigger shower clouds, and whether these clouds will get even bigger and form cumulonimbus clouds (thunder clouds).<br>As unsaturated air rises, its temperature drops at the dry adiabatic rate.  The dew point also drops (as a result of decreasing air pressure) but much more slowly, typically about 2 °C per 1,000 m. If unsaturated air rises far enough, eventually its temperature will reach its dew point, and condensation will begin to form. This altitude is known as the lifting condensation level (LCL) when mechanical lift is present and the convective condensation level (CCL) when mechanical lift is absent, in which case, the parcel must be heated from below to its convective temperature. The cloud base will be somewhere within the layer bounded by these parameters.<br>The difference between the dry adiabatic lapse rate and the rate at which the dew point drops is around 4.5 °C per 1,000 m. Given a difference in temperature and dew point readings on the ground, one can easily find the LCL by multiplying the difference by 125 m/°C.<br>If the environmental lapse rate is less than the moist adiabatic lapse rate, the air is absolutely stable — rising air will cool faster than the surrounding air and lose buoyancy. This often happens in the early morning, when the air near the ground has cooled overnight. Cloud formation in stable air is unlikely.<br>If the environmental lapse rate is between the moist and dry adiabatic lapse rates, the air is conditionally unstable — an unsaturated parcel of air does not have sufficient buoyancy to rise to the LCL or CCL, and it is stable to weak vertical displacements in either direction. If the parcel is saturated it is unstable and will rise to the LCL or CCL, and either be halted due to an inversion layer of convective inhibition, or if lifting continues, deep, moist convection (DMC) may ensue, as a parcel rises to the level of free convection (LFC), after which it enters the free convective layer (FCL) and usually rises to the equilibrium level (EL).<br>If the environmental lapse rate is larger than the dry adiabatic lapse rate, it has a superadiabatic lapse rate, the air is absolutely unstable — a parcel of air will gain buoyancy as it rises both below and above the lifting condensation level or convective condensation level. This often happens in the afternoon mainly over land masses. In these conditions, the likelihood of cumulus clouds, showers or even thunderstorms is increased.<br>Meteorologists use radiosondes to measure the environmental lapse rate and compare it to the predicted adiabatic lapse rate to forecast the likelihood that air will rise. Charts of the environmental lapse rate are known as thermodynamic diagrams, examples of which include Skew-T log-P diagrams and tephigrams. (See also Thermals).<br>The difference in moist adiabatic lapse rate and the dry rate is the cause of foehn wind phenomenon (also known as "Chinook winds" in parts of North America). The phenomenon exists because warm moist air rises through orographic lifting up and over the top of a mountain range or large mountain. The temperature decreases with the dry adiabatic lapse rate, until it hits the dew point, where water vapor in the air begins to condense. Above that altitude, the adiabatic lapse rate decreases to the moist adiabatic lapse rate as the air continues to rise. Condensation is also commonly followed by precipitation on the top and windward sides of the mountain. As the air descends on the leeward side, it is warmed by adiabatic compression at the dry adiabatic lapse rate. Thus, the foehn wind at a certain altitude is warmer than the corresponding altitude on the windward side of the mountain range. In addition, because the air has lost much of its original water vapor content, the descending air creates an arid region on the leeward side of the mountain.[16]<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Adiabatic process<br>Atmospheric thermodynamics<br>Fluid dynamics<br>Foehn wind<br>Lapse rate climate feedback<br>Scale height<br>Notes[edit]<br><br><br>^ Note: <br><br><br><br>Γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \Gamma }<br><br> and <br><br><br><br>γ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \gamma }<br><br> are both used in this article but with very distinct meanings.[4][5]<br><br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Jacobson, Mark Zachary (2005). Fundamentals of Atmospheric Modeling (2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-83970-9.<br><br>^ Ahrens, C. Donald (2006). Meteorology Today (8th ed.). Brooks/Cole Publishing. ISBN 978-0-495-01162-0.<br><br>^ Todd S. Glickman (June 2000). Glossary of Meteorology (2nd ed.). American Meteorological Society, Boston. ISBN 978-1-878220-34-9. (Glossary of Meteorology)<br><br>^ Salomons, Erik M. (2001). Computational Atmospheric Acoustics (1st ed.). Kluwer Academic Publishers. ISBN 978-1-4020-0390-5.<br><br>^ Stull, Roland B. (2001). An Introduction to Boundary Layer Meteorology (1st ed.). Kluwer Academic Publishers. ISBN 978-90-277-2769-5.<br><br>^ a b Richard M. Goody; James C.G. Walker (1972). "Atmospheric Temperatures" (PDF). Atmospheres. Prentice-Hall. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-06-03.<br><br>^ Danielson, EW; Levin, J; Abrams, E (2002). Meteorology. McGraw Hill Higher Education. ISBN 9780072420722.<br><br>^ "The stratosphere: overview". UCAR. Retrieved 2016-05-02.<br><br>^ Landau and Lifshitz, Fluid Mechanics, Pergamon, 1979<br><br>^ Kittel; Kroemer (1980). "6". Thermal Physics. W. H. Freeman. p. 179. ISBN 978-0-7167-1088-2. problem 11<br><br>^ "Dry Adiabatic Lapse Rate". tpub.com. Archived from the original on 2016-06-03. Retrieved 2016-05-02.<br><br>^ Minder, JR; Mote, PW; Lundquist, JD (2010). "Surface temperature lapse rates over complex terrain: Lessons from the Cascade Mountains". J. Geophys. Res. 115 (D14): D14122. Bibcode:2010JGRD..11514122M. doi:10.1029/2009JD013493.<br><br>^ "Saturation adiabatic lapse rate". Glossary. American Meteorological Society.<br><br>^ "Mixing ratio". Glossary. American Meteorological Society.<br><br>^ Manual of the ICAO Standard Atmosphere (extended to 80 kilometres (262 500 feet)) (Third ed.). International Civil Aviation Organization. 1993. ISBN 978-92-9194-004-2. Doc 7488-CD.<br><br>^ Whiteman, C. David (2000). Mountain Meteorology: Fundamentals and Applications. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-513271-7.<br><br><br>Further reading[edit]<br>Beychok, Milton R. (2005). Fundamentals Of Stack Gas Dispersion (4th ed.). author-published. ISBN 978-0-9644588-0-2. www.air-dispersion.com<br>R. R. Rogers and M. K. Yau (1989). Short Course in Cloud Physics (3rd ed.). Butterworth-Heinemann. ISBN 978-0-7506-3215-7.<br>External links[edit]<br>Definition, equations and tables of lapse rate from the Planetary Data system.<br>National Science Digital Library glossary:<br>Lapse Rate<br>Environmental lapse rate<br>Absolute stable air<br>An introduction to lapse rate calculation from first principles from U. Texas<br>vteMeteorological data and variablesGeneral<br>Adiabatic processes<br>Advection<br>Buoyancy<br>Lapse rate<br>Lightning<br>Surface solar radiation<br>Surface weather analysis<br>Visibility<br>Vorticity<br>Wind<br>Wind shear<br>Condensation<br>Cloud<br>Cloud condensation nuclei (CCN)<br>Fog<br>Convective condensation level (CCL)<br>Lifted condensation level (LCL)<br>Precipitable water<br>Precipitation<br>Water vapor<br>Convection<br>Convective available potential energy (CAPE)<br>Convective inhibition (CIN)<br>Convective instability<br>Convective momentum transport<br>Conditional symmetric instability<br>Convective temperature (Tc)<br>Equilibrium level (EL)<br>Free convective layer (FCL)<br>Helicity<br>K Index<br>Level of free convection (LFC)<br>Lifted index (LI)<br>Maximum parcel level (MPL)<br>Bulk Richardson number (BRN)<br>Temperature<br>Dew point (Td)<br>Dew point depression<br>Dry-bulb temperature<br>Equivalent temperature (Te)<br>Forest fire weather index<br>Haines Index<br>Heat index<br>Humidex<br>Humidity<br>Relative humidity (RH)<br>Mixing ratio<br>Potential temperature (θ)<br>Equivalent potential temperature (θe)<br>Sea surface temperature (SST)<br>Temperature anomaly<br>Thermodynamic temperature<br>Vapor pressure<br>Virtual temperature<br>Wet-bulb temperature<br>Wet-bulb globe temperature<br>Wet-bulb potential temperature<br>Wind chill<br>Pressure<br>Atmospheric pressure<br>Baroclinity<br>Barotropicity<br>Pressure gradient<br>Pressure-gradient force (PGF)<br>Velocity<br>Maximum potential intensity<br><br>Authority control databases: National <br>Israel<br>United States<br><br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lapse_rate&oldid=1214962807"<br>Categories: Atmospheric thermodynamicsClimate change feedbacksFluid mechanicsMeteorological quantitiesSpatial gradientAtmospheric temperatureVertical positionHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2022All articles needing additional referencesArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 22 March 2024, at 08:27 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width
