# Query `82`

## Original Question

*I'm slightly confused by how thermohaline circulation works in the Earth's oceans. Is it different for surface water as opposed to deep water? I thought that warm water from the equator is transported to the poles, cools down, and then returns to lower latitudes. Is my thinking incorrect? Isn't water denser near the equator because of higher salinity? How does this impact the ocean circulation?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.3333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3066
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4911
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4911
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4911
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4911
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.2778
map_cut_25: 0.2778
map_cut_50: 0.2778
map_cut_100: 0.2778
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Sea3_29.txt
> deep water masses. A main deep ocean current flows through all the world's oceans and is known as the thermohaline circulation or global conveyor belt. This movement is slow and is driven by differences in density of the water caused by variations in salinity and temperature. At high latitudes the water is chilled by the low atmospheric temperature and becomes saltier as sea ice crystallizes out. Both these factors make it denser, and the water sinks. From the deep sea near Greenland, such water flows southwards between the continental landmasses on either side of the Atlantic. When it reaches the

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Ocean1_58.txt
> warm waters transported by the Gulf Stream into the Mediterranean Sea and has a warmer climate overall. Maine is influenced by cold waters transported south by the Labrador Current giving it a colder climate overall.<br>Changes in the thermohaline circulation are thought to have significant impacts on Earth's energy budget. Because the thermohaline circulation determines the rate at which deep waters reach the surface, it may also significantly influence atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations. Modern observations, climate simulations and paleoclimate reconstructions suggest that the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC) has weakened since the preindustrial era. The

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) thermohaline_circulation/05conveyor1_html3.txt
> Home  Education  Currents  Thermohaline Circulation<br><br><br>Thermohaline Circulation<br><br>Currents Tutorial<br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Thermohaline circulation begins in the Earth's polar regions. When  ocean water in these areas gets very cold, sea ice forms. The  surrounding seawater gets saltier, increases in density and sinks.<br><br><br><br>Winds drive ocean currents in the upper 100 meters of the ocean’s  surface. However, ocean currents also flow thousands of meters below  the surface. These deep-ocean currents are driven by differences in the  water’s density, which is controlled by temperature (thermo) and salinity (haline).  This process is known as thermohaline circulation.<br>In the Earth's polar regions ocean water gets very cold, forming sea  ice. As a consequence the surrounding seawater gets saltier, because  when sea ice forms, the salt is left behind. As the seawater gets  saltier, its density increases, and it starts to sink. Surface water is  pulled in to replace the sinking water, which in turn eventually  becomes cold and salty enough to sink. This initiates the deep-ocean  currents driving the global conveyer belt.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Currents Lessons<br><br><br><br>Welcome<br>Tidal Currents 1<br>Tidal Currents 2<br>Coastal Currents<br>Waves<br>Longshore Currents<br>Rip Currents<br>Upwelling<br>Surface Ocean Currents<br>The Coriolis Effect<br>Surface Ocean Currents<br>Boundary Currents<br>The Ekman Spiral<br>The Global Conveyor Belt<br>Thermohaline Circulation<br>The Global Conveyor Belt<br>Effects of Climate Change<br>How Are Currents Measured?<br>Age of Exploration<br>What is a "knot"?<br>Shallow Water Drifter<br>Deep Ocean Drifter<br>Current Profiler<br>Shore-based Current Meters<br><br>How Currents Affect Our Lives?<br>References<br>Roadmap to Resources<br>Subject Review<br> <br><br>Search Education

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Sea3_9.txt
> amount of solar radiation falling on its surface. In the tropics, with the sun nearly overhead, the temperature of the surface layers can rise to over 30 °C (86 °F) while near the poles the temperature in equilibrium with the sea ice is about −2 °C (28 °F). There is a continuous circulation of water in the oceans. Warm surface currents cool as they move away from the tropics, and the water becomes denser and sinks. The cold water moves back towards the equator as a deep sea current, driven by changes in the temperature and

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) falling_sea_level_in_hudson_bay/Ocean1_45.txt
> the poles the temperature in equilibrium with the sea ice is about −2 °C (28 °F). There is a continuous circulation of water in the oceans. Warm surface currents cool as they move away from the tropics, and the water becomes denser and sinks. The cold water moves back towards the equator as a deep sea current, driven by changes in the temperature and density of the water, before eventually welling up again towards the surface. Deep ocean water has a temperature between −2 °C (28 °F) and 5 °C (41 °


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 8, thermohaline_circulation/ocean_conveyor_belt_htm5.txt
> Gyres<br>Equatorial<br>    Currents<br>Western<br>    Boundary<br>    Currents<br>Rings<br>Upwelling and<br>    Downwelling<br> <br>Ocean<br>    Conveyer<br>    Belt<br> <br>Related Link<br>Impact<br>  Ocean Conveyor<br>Belt <br><br><br><br><br><br>The global oceanic conveyer belt (shown above in a simplified illustration), is a unifying concept that connects the ocean's surface and thermohaline (deep mass) circulation  regimes, transporting heat and salt on a planetary scale.<br>The conveyor belt system can be thought of as beginning near Greenland and Iceland in the North Atlantic where dry, cold winds blowing from northern Canada chill surface waters. The combined chilling of surface waters, evaporation, and sea-ice formation produces cold, salty North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW). The newly formed NADW sinks and flows southward along the continental slope of North and South America toward Antarctica where the water mass then flows eastward around the Antarctic continent (in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current). There the NADW mixes with Antarctic waters (i.e., AABW and AADW). The resulting Common Water, also called Antarctic Circumpolar water, flows northward at depth into the three ocean basins (primarily the Pacific and Indian Oceans).<br> <br> <br> <br> <br> <br> <br> <br><br>These bottom waters gradually warm and mix with overlying waters as they flow northward. They move to the surface at a rate of only a few meters per year. After rising to the surface in the Pacific, the surface waters flow through the many passages between the Indonesian islands into the Indian Ocean. Eventually they flow into the Agulhas Current, the Indian Ocean boundary current that flows around southern Africa. After entering the Atlantic Ocean, the surface waters join the wind-driven currents in the Atlantic, becoming saltier by evaporation under the intense tropical sun. Trade winds transport some of this water vapor out of the Atlantic Ocean basin, across the Isthmus of Panama, and into the Pacific Ocean basin. Atlantic surface waters eventually return northward to the Labrador and Greenland seas in the North Atlantic.<br>Continued operation of the oceanic conveyor belt is important to northern Europe's moderate climate because of northward transport of heat in the Gulf Stream and North Atlantic Current. The system can weaken or shut down entirely if the North Atlantic surface-water salinity somehow drops too low to allow the formation of deep-ocean water masses. This apparently happened during the Little Ice Age (about 1400 to 1850 AD). The conveyer system shut down and northern Europe's climate became markedly colder. Old paintings from this era show Dutch skaters on frozen canals-something that would not occur during today's climatic regime. Cores extracted from deep-sea sediment deposits contain evidence of earlier cold periods.<br>Adapted from DataStreme Ocean and <br>used with permission of the <br>American Meteorological Society.<br><br><br><br><br>Contact Website Manager

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 2, thermohaline_circulation/05conveyor1_html3.txt
> Home  Education  Currents  Thermohaline Circulation<br><br><br>Thermohaline Circulation<br><br>Currents Tutorial<br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Thermohaline circulation begins in the Earth's polar regions. When  ocean water in these areas gets very cold, sea ice forms. The  surrounding seawater gets saltier, increases in density and sinks.<br><br><br><br>Winds drive ocean currents in the upper 100 meters of the ocean’s  surface. However, ocean currents also flow thousands of meters below  the surface. These deep-ocean currents are driven by differences in the  water’s density, which is controlled by temperature (thermo) and salinity (haline).  This process is known as thermohaline circulation.<br>In the Earth's polar regions ocean water gets very cold, forming sea  ice. As a consequence the surrounding seawater gets saltier, because  when sea ice forms, the salt is left behind. As the seawater gets  saltier, its density increases, and it starts to sink. Surface water is  pulled in to replace the sinking water, which in turn eventually  becomes cold and salty enough to sink. This initiates the deep-ocean  currents driving the global conveyer belt.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Currents Lessons<br><br><br><br>Welcome<br>Tidal Currents 1<br>Tidal Currents 2<br>Coastal Currents<br>Waves<br>Longshore Currents<br>Rip Currents<br>Upwelling<br>Surface Ocean Currents<br>The Coriolis Effect<br>Surface Ocean Currents<br>Boundary Currents<br>The Ekman Spiral<br>The Global Conveyor Belt<br>Thermohaline Circulation<br>The Global Conveyor Belt<br>Effects of Climate Change<br>How Are Currents Measured?<br>Age of Exploration<br>What is a "knot"?<br>Shallow Water Drifter<br>Deep Ocean Drifter<br>Current Profiler<br>Shore-based Current Meters<br><br>How Currents Affect Our Lives?<br>References<br>Roadmap to Resources<br>Subject Review<br> <br><br>Search Education
