# Query `84`

## Original Question

*Has anyone ever found or gone looking for similar locations, i.e. volcanic eruption sites in which unfortunate victims – human and non-human – have been entombed in the volcanic ash, with the possibility of revealing their forms by producing casts from the voids? Such sites, if they exist, could reveal exciting new knowledge about ancient peoples and animals.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0417
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2153
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2153
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2153
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0417
map_cut_50: 0.0417
map_cut_100: 0.0417
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) pompeii_and_herculaneum/Herculaneum3_38.txt
> culaneum and Roman Italy.[34]<br>Casts of skeletons were also produced to replace the original bones after taphonomic study, scientific documentation and excavation. In contrast to Pompeii, where casts resembling the body features of the victims were produced by filling the body imprints in the ash deposit with plaster, the shape of corpses at Herculaneum could not be preserved due to the rapid vaporisation and replacement of the flesh of the victims by the hot ash (ca. 500 °C). A cast of the skeletons unearthed in chamber 10 is on display at the Museum of Anthropology in

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) sendimentation_without_water/Tuff3.txt
> Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Rock consolidated from volcanic ash<br>For other uses, see Tuff (disambiguation).<br>Not to be confused with Tufa.<br>Cliff face of welded tuff pockmarked with holes — some natural, some man-made from Bandelier National Monument, New Mexico<br>Etruscan tuff blocks from a tomb at Banditaccia<br>A house constructed of tuff blocks in Germany<br>Tuff is a type of rock made of volcanic ash ejected from a vent during a volcanic eruption. Following ejection and deposition, the ash is lithified into a solid rock.[1][2] Rock that contains greater than 75% ash is considered tuff, while rock containing 25% to 75% ash is described as tuffaceous (for example, tuffaceous sandstone).[3] Tuff composed of sandy volcanic material can be referred to as volcanic sandstone.[4]<br>Tuff is a relatively soft rock, so it has been used for construction since ancient times.[5] Because it is common in Italy, the Romans used it often for construction.[6] The Rapa Nui people used it to make most of the moai statues on Easter Island.[7]<br>Tuff can be classified as either igneous or sedimentary rock. It is usually studied in the context of igneous petrology, although it is sometimes described using sedimentological terms.<br>Tuff is often erroneously called tufa in guidebooks and in television programs but tufa is a form of travertine.<br><br><br>Volcanic ash[edit]<br>The material that is expelled in a volcanic eruption can be classified into three types:<br><br>Volcanic gases, a mixture made mostly of steam, carbon dioxide, and a sulfur compound (either sulfur dioxide, SO2, or hydrogen sulfide, H2S, depending on the temperature)<br>Lava, the name of magma when it emerges and flows over the surface<br>Tephra, particles of solid material of all shapes and sizes ejected and thrown through the air<br>Light-microscope image of tuff as seen in thin section (long dimension is several mm): The curved shapes of altered glass shards (ash fragments) are well preserved, although the glass is partly altered. The shapes were formed about bubbles of expanding, water-rich gas.<br>Tephra is made when magma inside the volcano is blown apart by the rapid expansion of hot volcanic gases. Magma commonly explodes as the gas dissolved in it comes out of solution as the pressure decreases when it flows to the surface. These violent explosions produce particles of material that can then fly from the volcano. Solid particles smaller than 2 mm in diameter (sand-sized or smaller) are called volcanic ash.[8][3]<br>Volcanic ash is further divided into fine ash, with particle sizes smaller than 0.0625 mm in diameter, and coarse ash, with particle sizes between 0.0625 mm and 2 mm in diameter. Tuff is correspondingly divided into coarse tuff (coarse ash tuff) and fine tuff (fine ash tuff or dust tuff). Consolidated tephra composed mostly of coarser particles is called lapillistone (particles 2 mm to 64 mm in diameter) or agglomerate or pyroclastic breccia (particles over 64 mm in diameter) rather than tuff.[3]<br>Volcanic ash can vary greatly in composition, and so tuffs are further classified by the composition of the ash from which they formed. Ash from high-silica volcanism, particularly in ash flows, consists mainly of shards of volcanic glass,[9][10] and tuff formed predominantly from glass shards is described as vitric tuff.[11] The glass shards are typically either irregular in shape or are roughly triangular with convex sides. They are the shattered walls of countless small bubbles that formed in the magma as dissolved gases rapidly came out of solution.[12]<br>Tuffs formed from ash consisting predominantly of individual crystals are described as crystal tuffs, while those formed from ash consisting predominantly of pulverized rock fragments are described as lithic tuffs.[11]<br>The chemical composition of volcanic ash reflects the entire range of volcanic rock chemistry, from high-silica rhyolitic ash to low-silica basaltic ash, and tuffs are likewise described as rhyolitic, andesitic, basaltic, and so on.[13]<br><br><br>Transport and lithification[edit]<br>The most straightforward way for volcanic ash to move away from the vent is as ash clouds that are part of an eruption column. These fall to the surface as fallout deposits that are characteristically well-sorted and tend to form a blanket of uniform thickness across terrain. Column collapse results in a more spectacular and destructive form of transport, which takes the form of pyroclastic flows and surges that characteristically are poorly sorted and pool in low terrain. Surge deposits sometimes show sedimentary structures typical of high-velocity flow, such as dunes and antidunes.[14] Volcanic ash already deposited on the surface can be transported as mud flows (lahars) when mingled with water from rainfall or through eruption into a body of water or ice.[15]<br>Particles of volcanic ash that are sufficiently hot will weld together after settling to the surface, producing a welded tuff. Welding requires temperatures in excess of 600 °C (1,100 °F). If the rock contains scattered, pea-sized fragments or fiamme in it, it is called a welded lapilli-tuff. Welded tuffs (and welded lapilli-tuffs) can be of fallout origin, or deposited from ash flows, as in the case of ignimbrites.[16] During welding, the glass shards and pumice fragments adhere together (necking at point contacts), deform, and compact together, resulting in a eutaxitic fabric.[17] Welded tuff is commonly rhyolitic in composition, but examples of all compositions are known.[18][19]<br>A sequence of ash flows may consist of multiple cooling units. These can be distinguished by the degree of welding. The base of a cooling unit is typically unwelded due to chilling from the underlying cold surface, and the degree of welding and of secondary reactions from fluids in the flow increases upwards towards the center of the flow. Welding decreases towards the top of the cooling unit, where the unit cools more rapidly. The intensity of welding may also decrease towards areas in which the deposit is thinner, and with distance from source.[20]<br>Cooler pyroclastic flows are unwelded and the ash sheets deposited by them are relatively unconsolidated.[17] However, cooled volcanic ash can quickly become lithified because it usually has a high content of volcanic glass. This is a thermodynamically unstable material that reacts rapidly with ground water or sea water, which leaches alkali metals and calcium from the glass. New minerals, such as zeolites, clays, and calcite, crystallize from the dissolved substances and cement the tuff.[21]<br>Tuffs are further classified by their depositional environment, such as lacustrine tuff, subaerial tuff, or submarine tuff, or by the mechanism by which the ash was transported, such as fallout tuff or ash flow tuff. Reworked tuffs, formed by erosion and redeposition of ash deposits, are usually described by the transport agent, such as aeolian tuff or fluvial tuff.[22]<br><br><br><br><br>Layers of fallout tuff in Japan<br><br><br><br>Rocks from the Bishop tuff in California, unwelded with pumice on left, welded with fiamme on right<br><br><br><br>Bandelier Tuff at San Diego Canyon, New Mexico, USA. The lower Otowi Member is a single massive cooling unit, while the upper Tshirege Member is composed of multiple cooling units.<br><br><br>Occurrences[edit]<br>Tuffs have the potential to be deposited wherever explosive volcanism takes place, and so have a wide distribution in location and age.[23]<br><br>High-silica volcanism[edit]<br>Rhyolite tuffs contain pumiceous, glassy fragments and small scoriae with quartz, alkali feldspar, biotite, etc. Iceland,[24] Lipari,[25] Hungary,[26] the Basin and Range of the American southwest, and New Zealand[27] are among the areas where such tuffs are prominent. In the ancient rocks of Wales,[28] Charnwood,[29] etc., similar tuffs are known, but in all cases, they are greatly changed by silicification (which has filled them with opal, chalcedony, and quartz) and by devitrification.[30] The frequent presence of rounded corroded quartz crystals, such as occur in rhyolitic lavas, helps to demonstrate their real nature.[8]<br>Welded ignimbrites can be highly voluminous, such as the Lava Creek Tuff erupted from Yellowstone Caldera in Wyoming 631,000 years ago. This tuff had an original volume of at least 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cu mi).[31] Lava Creek tuff is known to be at least 1000 times as large as the deposits of the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, and it had a Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI) of 8, greater than any eruption known in the last 10,000 years.[32] Ash flow tuffs cover 7,000 square kilometers (2,700 sq mi) of the North Island of New Zealand and about 100,000 square kilometers (39,000 sq mi) of Nevada. Ash flow tuffs are the only volcanic product with volumes rivaling those of flood basalts.[27]<br>The Tioga Bentonite of the northeastern United States varies in composition from crystal tuff to tuffaceous shale. It was deposited as ash carried by wind that fell out over the sea and settled to the bottom. It is Devonian in age and likely came from a vent in central Virginia, where the tuff reaches its maximum thickness of about 40 meters (130 ft).[33]<br><br>Alkaline volcanism[edit]<br>Trachyte tuffs contain little or no quartz, but much sanidine or anorthoclase and sometimes oligoclase feldspar, with occasional biotite, augite, and hornblende. In weathering, they often change to soft red or yellow claystones, rich in kaolin with secondary quartz.[8] Recent trachyte tuffs are found on the Rhine (at Siebengebirge),[34] in Ischia[35] and near Naples.[36] Trachyte-carbonatite tuffs have been identified in the East African Rift.[37] Alkaline crystal tuffs have been reported from Rio de Janeiro.[38]<br><br>Intermediate volcanism[edit]<br>Andesitic tuffs are exceedingly common. They occur along the whole chain of the Cordilleras[39][40] and Andes,[41] in the West Indies, New Zealand,[42] Japan,[43] etc. In the Lake District,[44] North Wales, Lorne, the Pentland Hills, the Cheviots, and many other districts of Great Britain, ancient rocks of exactly similar nature are abundant. In color, they are red or brown; their scoriae fragments are of all sizes from huge blocks down to minute granular dust. The cavities are filled with many secondary minerals, such as calcite, chlorite, quartz, epidote, or chalcedony; in microscopic sections, though, the nature of the original lava can nearly always be made out from the shapes and properties of the little crystals which occur in the decomposed glassy base. Even in the smallest details, these ancient tuffs have a complete resemblance to the modern ash beds of Cotopaxi, Krakatoa, and Mont Pelé.[8]<br><br>Mafic volcanism[edit]<br>Diamond Head, a tuff cone<br>Most of the moais in Easter Island are carved out of tholeiite basalt tuff.<br>Mafic volcanism typically takes the form of Hawaiian eruptions that are nonexplosive and produce little ash.[45] However, interaction between basaltic magma and groundwater or sea water results in hydromagmatic explosions that produce abundant ash. These deposit ash cones that subsequently can become cemented into tuff cones. Diamond Head, Hawaii, is an example of a tuff cone, as is the island of Ka'ula. The glassy basaltic ash produced in such eruptions rapidly alters to palagonite as part of the process of lithification.[46]<br>Although conventional mafic volcanism produce little ash, such ash as is formed may accumulate locally as significant deposits. An example is the Pahala ash of  Hawaii island, which locally is as thick as 15 meters (49 ft). These deposits also rapidly alter to palagonite, and eventually weather to laterite.[47]<br>Basaltic tuffs are also found in Skye, Mull, Antrim, and other places, where Paleogene volcanic rocks are found; in Scotland, Derbyshire, and Ireland among the Carboniferous strata, and among the still older rocks of the Lake District, the southern uplands of Scotland, and Wales. They are black, dark green, or red in colour; vary greatly in coarseness, some being full of round spongy bombs a foot or more in diameter; and being often submarine, may contain shale, sandstone, grit, and other sedimentary material, and are occasionally fossiliferous. Recent basaltic tuffs are found in Iceland, the Faroe Islands, Jan Mayen, Sicily, the Hawaiian Islands, Samoa, etc. When weathered, they are filled with calcite, chlorite, serpentine, and especially where the lavas contain nepheline or leucite, are often rich in zeolites, such as analcite, prehnite, natrolite, scolecite, chabazite, heulandite, etc.[8]<br><br>Ultramafic volcanism[edit]<br>Ultramafic tuffs are extremely rare; their characteristic is the abundance of olivine or serpentine and the scarcity or absence of feldspar and quartz.[48]<br><br>Kimberlites[edit]<br>Occurrences of ultramafic tuff include surface deposits of kimberlite at maars in the diamond-fields of southern Africa and other regions. The principal variety of kimberlite is a dark bluish-green, serpentine-rich breccia (blue-ground) which, when thoroughly oxidized and weathered, becomes a friable brown or yellow mass (the "yellow-ground").[8] These breccias were emplaced as gas–solid mixtures and are typically preserved and mined in diatremes that form intrusive pipe-like structures. At depth, some kimberlite breccias grade into root zones of dikes made of unfragmented rock. At the surface, ultramafic tuffs may occur in maar deposits. Because kimberlites are the most common igneous source of diamonds, the transitions from maar to diatreme to root-zone dikes have been studied in detail. Diatreme-facies kimberlite is more properly called an ultramafic breccia rather than a tuff.<br><br>Komatiites[edit]<br>Komatiite tuffs are found, for example, in the greenstone belts of Canada and South Africa.[49][50]<br><br>Folding and metamorphism[edit]<br>Remains of the ancient Servian Walls in Rome, made of tuff blocks<br>19th century embankment wall built of Brisbane tuff, City of Brisbane<br>In course of time, changes other than weathering may overtake tuff deposits. Sometimes, they are involved in folding and become sheared and cleaved. Many of the green slates of the English Lake District are finely cleaved ashes. In Charnwood Forest also, the tuffs are slaty and cleaved. The green color is due to the large development of chlorite. Among the crystalline schists of many regions, green beds or green schists occur, which consist of quartz, hornblende, chlorite or biotite, iron oxides, feldspar, etc., and are probably recrystallized or metamorphosed tuffs. They often accompany masses of epidiorite and hornblende – schists which are the corresponding lavas and sills. Some chlorite-schists also are probably altered beds of volcanic tuff. The "Schalsteins" of Devon and Germany include many cleaved and partly recrystallized ash-beds, some of which still retain their fragmental structure, though their lapilli are flattened and drawn out. Their steam cavities are usually filled with calcite, but sometimes with quartz. The more completely altered forms of these rocks are platy, green chloritic schists; in these, however, structures indicating their original volcanic nature only sparingly occur. These are intermediate stages between cleaved tuffs and crystalline schists.[8]<br><br>Importance[edit]<br>The primary economic value of tuff is as a building material. In the ancient world, tuff's relative softness meant that it was commonly used for construction where it was available.[5] Tuff is common in Italy, and the Romans used it for many buildings and bridges.[6] For example, the whole port of the island of Ventotene (still in use), was carved from tuff. The Servian Wall, built to defend the city of Rome in the fourth century BC, is also built almost entirely from tuff.[51] The Romans also cut tuff into small, rectangular stones that they used to create walls in a pattern known as opus reticulatum.[52]<br>The peperino, much used at Rome and Naples as a building stone, is a trachyte tuff. Pozzolana also is a decomposed tuff, but of basic character, originally obtained near Naples and used as a cement, but this name is now applied to a number of substances not always of identical character. In the Eifel region of Germany, a trachytic, pumiceous tuff called trass has been extensively worked as a hydraulic mortar.[8]<br>Tuff of the Eifel region of Germany has been widely used for construction of railroad stations and other buildings in Frankfurt, Hamburg, and other large cities.[53] Construction using the Rochlitz Porphyr, can be seen in the Mannerist-style sculpted portal outside the chapel entrance in Colditz Castle.[54] The trade name Rochlitz Porphyr is the traditional designation for a dimension stone of Saxony with an architectural history over 1,000 years in Germany. The quarries are located near Rochlitz.[55]<br>Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, a U.S. Department of Energy terminal storage facility for spent nuclear reactor and other radioactive waste, is in tuff and ignimbrite in the Basin and Range Province in Nevada.[56] In Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley, California, areas made of tuff are routinely excavated for storage of wine barrels.[57]<br>Tuff from Rano Raraku was used by the Rapa Nui people of Easter Island to make the vast majority of their famous moai statues.[7]<br><br><br><br><br>Ahu Tongariki on Easter Island, with 15 moai made of tuff from Rano Raraku crater: The second moai from the right has a Pukao ("topknot") which is made of red scoria.<br><br><br><br>The rhyolitic tuff portal of the "church house" at Colditz Castle, Saxony, designed by Andreas Walther II (1584)<br><br><br>In Armenia[edit]<br>Tuff is used extensively in Armenia and Armenian architecture.[58] It is the dominant type of stone used in construction in Armenia's capital Yerevan,[59][60] Gyumri, Armenia's second largest city, and Ani, the country's medieval capital, now in Turkey.[61] A small village in Armenia was renamed Tufashen (literally "village of tuff") in 1946.[62]<br><br><br><br><br>Armenia's Government House in Yerevan's Republic Square, built of yellow tuff<br><br><br><br>Holy Saviour's Church in Gyumri, built mainly of black tuff<br><br><br><br>Cathedral of Ani, early 11th century, in the medieval Armenian capital of Ani (modern-day Turkey) was built in tuff[63]<br><br><br>Tephrochronology[edit]<br>Main article: Tephrochronology<br>Pilar Formation outcrop showing metatuff beds used for radiometric dating<br>Tuffs are deposited geologically instantaneously and often over a large region. This makes them highly useful as time-stratigraphic markers. The use of tuffs and other tephra deposits in this manner is known as tephrochronology and is particularly useful for Quaternary chronostratigraphy. Individual tuff beds can be "fingerprinted" by their chemical composition and phenocryst assemblages.[64] Absolute ages for tuff beds can be determined by K-Ar, Ar-Ar, or carbon-14 dating.[65] Zircon grains found in many tuffs are highly durable and can survive even metamorphism of the host tuff to schist, allowing absolute ages to be assigned to ancient metamorphic rocks. For example, dating of zircons in a metamorphosed tuff bed in the Pilar Formation provided some of the first evidence for the Picuris orogeny.[66]<br><br>Etymology[edit]<br>The word tuff is derived from the Italian tufo.[67]<br><br>See also[edit]<br><br>Bentonite – Rock type or absorbent swelling clay<br>Brisbane tuff<br>Eutaxitic texture – Layered or banded texture in some extrusive rock bodies<br>Sillar – Variety of rhyolite containing fragments of andesite<br>Tuffite – Tuff containing both pyroclastic and detrital materials<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Fisher, Richard V.; Schmincke, H.-U. (1984). Pyroclastic rocks. Berlin: Springer-Verlag. pp. 89–90. ISBN 3-540-12756-9.<br><br>^ Schmincke, Hans-Ulrich (2003). Volcanism. Berlin: Springer. p. 138. ISBN 978-3-540-43650-8.<br><br>^ a b c Schmidt, R. (1981). "Descriptive nomenclature and classification of pyroclastic deposits and fragments: recommendations of the IUGS Subcommission on the Systematics of Igneous Rocks". Geology. 9: 41–43. doi:10.1007/BF01822152. S2CID 128375559. Retrieved 27 September 2020.<br><br>^ Poole, W. H.; Neuman, Robert B. (2003). "Arenig volcanic and sedimentary strata, central New Brunswick and eastern Maine". Atlantic Geology. 38 (2/3). doi:10.4138/1257. Retrieved 2022-09-24.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) pompeii_and_herculaneum/how_volcanoes_form4_6.txt
> Volcanoes<br>We have a team of volcanologists that works on various research projects in locations around the world to help governments and local people to understand volcano behaviour.<br><br>Show more<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>How volcanoes form<br>How the different types of volcano are formed and the relationship with plate tectonics.<br><br>Show more<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>Eruption styles<br>Volcanic eruptions can be explosive, sending ash, gas and magma high up into the atmosphere, or effusive, producing lava flows and domes.<br><br>Show

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) igneous_petrologists/how_volcanoes_form4_6.txt
> Volcanoes<br>We have a team of volcanologists that works on various research projects in locations around the world to help governments and local people to understand volcano behaviour.<br><br>Show more<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>How volcanoes form<br>How the different types of volcano are formed and the relationship with plate tectonics.<br><br>Show more<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br>Eruption styles<br>Volcanic eruptions can be explosive, sending ash, gas and magma high up into the atmosphere, or effusive, producing lava flows and domes.<br><br>Show

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) pompeii_and_herculaneum/Pompeii2_51.txt
> the size and appearance of the ancient town could be appreciated. In the following years, the excavators struggled with a lack of money. Excavations progressed slowly, but with significant finds such as the houses of the Faun, of Menandro, of the Tragic Poet and the Surgeon.<br><br>Fiorelli's plan of regiones<br>Giuseppe Fiorelli took charge of the excavations in 1863 and made greater progress.[69] During early excavations of the site, occasional voids in the ash layer had been found that contained human remains. Fiorelli realised


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 23, pompeii_and_herculaneum/Mount_Pel_C3_A9e4.txt
> What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Coordinates: 14°49′N 61°10′W﻿ / ﻿14.817°N 61.167°W﻿ / 14.817; -61.167<br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Active volcano on the Caribbean island of Martinique<br>Mount PeléeHighest pointElevation1,397 m (4,583 ft)[1]Prominence1,381 m (4,531 ft)Coordinates14°49′N 61°10′W﻿ / ﻿14.817°N 61.167°W﻿ / 14.817; -61.167NamingPronunciation/pəˈleɪ/ pə-LAYFrench: [pəle]GeographyMount PeleeLocation in Martinique<br>LocationMartiniqueGeologyAge of rock89+Mountain typeStratovolcanoVolcanic arc/beltLesser Antilles Volcanic ArcLast eruption1929–1932[2]ClimbingEasiest routewalk<br>Mount Pelée or Mont Pelée (/pəˈleɪ/ pə-LAY; French: Montagne Pelée, [mɔ̃taɲ pəle]; Antillean Creole: Montann Pèlé, meaning "bald mountain" or "peeled mountain")[3] is an active volcano at the northern end of Martinique, an island and French overseas department in the Lesser Antilles Volcanic Arc of the Caribbean. Its volcanic cone is composed of stratified layers of hardened ash and solidified lava.[4] Its most recent eruption was in 1932.[2][5]<br>The stratovolcano's 1902 eruption destroyed the town of Saint-Pierre, killing 29,000 to 30,000 people in the space of a few minutes, in the worst volcanic disaster of the 20th century.[6] The main eruption, on 8 May 1902, left only three known survivors. Ludger Sylbaris survived because he was in a poorly ventilated, dungeon-like jail cell. Léon Compère-Léandre, living on the edge of the city, escaped with severe burns.[7] The third was a young girl named Havivra Da Ifrile, who fled to a nearby sea cave in a boat, enduring burns from falling ash.[8]<br>In 2023, it was listed as UNESCO World heritage site.[9]<br><br><br>Geographical setting and description[edit]<br>Mount Pelée is the result of a typical subduction zone. The subduction formed the Lesser Antilles island arc, a curved chain of volcanoes approximately 850 kilometres (530 mi) in length, between Puerto Rico and Venezuela, where the Caribbean Plate meets Atlantic oceanic crust belonging to the South American Plate. Other volcanoes in the island arc are also known for their volcanic activity, including Saint Vincent's La Soufrière, Guadeloupe's La Grande Soufriere volcano, Montserrat's Soufrière Hills, and the submarine volcano Kick 'em Jenny.[4]<br><br>Geological history[edit]<br>Volcanologists have identified three different phases in the evolution of Mount Pelée volcano: initial, intermediate, and modern.[4] In an initial phase, called the "Paléo-Pelée" stage, Mount Pelee was a common stratovolcano. The cone of Paléo-Pelée was composed of many layers of lava flows and fragmented volcanic debris. Remains of the Paléo-Pelée cone are still visible at the northern view at the volcano today.<br>A second stage, now called the intermediate phase, started around 100,000 years ago, after a long period of quiescence. This stage is grouped by the formation of the Morne Macouba lava dome, then later on, the Morne Macouba caldera. During the intermediate phase, there were several eruptions which produced pyroclastic flows like those that destroyed Saint-Pierre in the 1902 eruption. Around 25,000 years ago, a large southwest sector collapse occurred, forming a landslide. This event was similar to the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980.[4]<br>The modern stage of the evolution of Mount Pelée has created most of the current cone, with deposits of pumice and the results of past pyroclastic flows. More than 30 eruptions have been identified during the last 5,000 years of the volcano's activity.<br>Three thousand years ago, following a large pumice eruption, the Étang Sec (French for Dry Pond) caldera was then formed. The 1902 eruption took place within the Étang Sec crater. This eruption formed many pyroclastic flows and produced a dome that filled the caldera. Mount Pelée continued to erupt until 4 July 1905. Thereafter, the volcano was dormant until 1929.[10]<br>On 16 September 1929, Mount Pelée began to erupt again. This time, there was no hesitation on the part of authorities and the danger area was immediately evacuated. The 1929 eruption formed a second dome in the Étang Sec caldera and produced pyroclastic flows emptying into the Blanche River valley. Although there were pyroclastic flows, the activity was not as violent as the 1902 activity. It culminated in another "spine" or lava plug, albeit smaller than the 1902 plug, being emplaced at the summit. The activity ended in late 1932.[4][11]<br><br>Current status[edit]<br>This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Mount Pelée" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>The volcano is currently active. A few volcano tectonic earthquakes occur on Martinique every year, and Mount Pelée is under continuous watch by geophysicists and volcanologists (IPGP). Before the 1902 eruption—as early as the summer of 1900—signs of increased fumarole activity were present in the Étang Sec crater.[12] Relatively minor phreatic (steam) eruptions that occurred in 1792 and 1851 were evidence that the volcano was active. Signs of unrest are likely to precede any future eruptive activity from Mount Pelée, and its past activity (including the violent eruptions uncovered by carbon dating) is an extremely important factor for hazard assessment.[13][14]<br>The city of Saint-Pierre was never fully rebuilt, though some villages grew up in its place. The estimated population of the Commune of Saint-Pierre in 2017 was 4,123.[15]<br>On December 6, 2020, The Martinique Volcano Observatory (MVO) raised Mount Pelee's alert level to Yellow [Restless] from Green [Normal] due to an increase in seismicity under the volcano beginning in April 2019, and observations of tremors the previous month.<br>As far as was known, this was the first sign of activity since the end of the 1929–1932 eruption. This volcano is, of course,  highly dangerous, and great vigilance of its activity is required. Whether or not it is going to enter a new eruptive period is currently unknown.<br>According to the MVO press release "The increase in seismicity of superficial volcanic origin (up to 4–5 km below the summit) observed since April 2019, is therefore clearly above the base level characteristic for Mount Pelée.<br>In April 2019, volcanic seismicity appeared at depth around and under Mount Pelée (more than 10 km below sea level). It could correspond to the arrival at depth of magmatic fluids.<br>Finally, new recorded tremor-type signals were observed on November 8 and 9, 2020: they could correspond to a reactivation of the hydrothermal system.<br>Even if, in the current state of measurements, there is no deformation of the volcano on the scale of the observation network, the appearance, in a few months, of these three different types of seismic signals of volcanic origin shows a clear change in the behavior of the volcanic system, the activity of which is increasing from the base level observed over several decades."[16]<br><br>Biology[edit]<br>The Martinique volcano frog, Allobates chalcopis, is endemic to Mount Pelée,[17] and the only species among related frogs (family Aromobatidae) endemic to an oceanic island.[18]<br><br>Important bird area[edit]<br>A 9,262 ha largely forested tract, encompassing the mountain and extending to the sea on its north-western side, has been recognised as an Important Bird Area (IBA) by BirdLife International because it supports populations of bridled quail doves, Lesser Antillean swifts, green and purple-throated caribs, blue headed and Antillean crested hummingbirds, Caribbean elaenias, Lesser Antillean flycatchers, Lesser Antillean pewees, scaly-breasted and pearly-eyed thrashers, brown and grey tremblers, rufous-throated solitaires, Antillean euphonias, Martinique orioles, Lesser Antillean saltators and Lesser Antillean bullfinches.[19]<br><br>Protection[edit]<br>On September 16, 2023, the volcanoes and forests of Mount Pelée and the pitons of northern Martinique were listed as UNESCO World Heritage Site. The volcanic mountain range represents 12% of Martinique's territory.[20] It is the 7th natural site in France to be listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.[21] World Heritage status could also have a positive impact on tourism and the economy, increasing visitor numbers by 30 to 40%, according to the Martinique Nature Park.[9]<br><br>In literature[edit]<br>The Day The World Ended by Gordon Thomas and Max Morgan Witts (Stein and Day, 1969, 306 pp). The authors used contemporary records and survivor accounts to construct a historical novel of the events and lives of residents of Martinique, leading up to and through the eruption of May 8, 1902.<br>Texaco by Patrick Chamoiseau (Gallimard, 1992. Trans. Rose-Myriam Réjouis and Val Vinokurov, Vintage International, 1998). In this novel that retraces several generations of Martinique's history, Esternome, the protagonist of the novel's first part, witnesses firsthand the destruction caused by the volcano. Marie-Sophie Laborieux, Esternome's daughter and the novel's narrator, recounts her father's experiences and also discusses the traces of this event she has seen herself, including burn scars on her father's body and ossuaries in the ruins of Saint-Pierre. The eruption and its aftermath are discussed in the section "Amour grillée" ("Barbecued Love").<br>Ti-Coyo and his shark (by Clément Richer. Trans. Gerard Hopkins) (Rupert Hart-Davis 1 January 1951) (First published 1 January 1941 as Ti-Coyo et son requin). In this humorous fable, wickedness triumphs because it is charming. Set on the exotic Caribbean island of Martinique before, during, and after the infamous eruption of Mont Pelée in 1902. Ti-Coyo, a shrewd and winning mixed race boy, rescues a wounded baby shark, which becomes his faithful companion as it grows into a monster fearful to everyone but him. With the help of this behemoth, Ti-Coyo becomes rich and wins the flaxen-haired princess of his dreams. It is the shark, too, who saves Ti-Coyo, his ill-assorted parents, and his sweetheart when Mont Pelée pours destruction over St. Pierre.<br>See also[edit]<br>List of volcanic eruptions by death toll<br>Mount Pinatubo<br>Mount Vesuvius<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ "La Montagne Pelée". Observatoire volcanologique et sismologique de la Martinique (in French). Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. Retrieved 8 March 2017.<br><br>^ a b "Pelee". Global Volcanism Program. Smithsonian Institution. Retrieved 8 March 2017.<br><br>^ Scarth, Alwyn (2002). La Catastrophe: The Eruption of Mount Pelee, the Worst Volcanic Eruption of the Twentieth Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 2. ISBN 0-19-521839-6.<br><br>^ a b c d e "Mount Pelee". Mount-pelee.com.<br><br>^ "Glossary". NOAA. Retrieved 27 January 2021.<br><br>^ Deadliest Eruptions<br>"Deadliest Eruptions". Pacific Disaster Center. Archived from the original on 2012-03-19. Retrieved 2010-06-30.<br>Wright, Thomas L.; Pierson, Thomas C. (1992). "Living with Volcanoes". Circular. USGS. p. 39. doi:10.3133/cir1073. {{cite book}}: |work= ignored (help)<br>Tilling (1985). Volcanoes. USGS. pp. 16–17.<br>"1902 eruption of Mount Pelee". USGS. Archived from the original on 4 September 2013. Retrieved 29 March 2017.<br>Blong, R.J. (1984). Volcanic Hazards: A Sourcebook on the Effects of Eruptions. Orlando, Florida: Academic Press. ISBN 9780121071806.<br>Heilprin, Angelo (1903). Mont Pelee and the Tragedy of Martinique. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company. Retrieved 2009-08-15.<br><br>^ "The eruption of Mount Pelee". SDSU. Retrieved 27 January 2021.<br><br>^ Bressan, David. "May 8, 1902: La Pel e". Scientific American Blog Network. Retrieved 2021-01-27.<br><br>^ a b "Martinique : la montagne Pelée et les pitons du nord inscrits au patrimoine mondial de l'Unesco". Les Echos (in French). 2023-09-17. Retrieved 2023-09-18.<br><br>^ Scarth, Alwyn (2002). La Catastrophe. Oxford. p. 221.<br><br>^ Zebrowski Jr., Ernest (2002). The Last Days of St. Pierre-The Volcanic Disaster that Claimed 30,000 Lives. Rutgers University Press. p. 268. ISBN 978-0813530413.<br><br>^ Scarth, p. 30
