# Query `86`

## Original Question

*Atmospheric mixing ratios of the hydroxyl radical have relatively short lifespans (on the order of microseconds). When modeling air quality or the weather, the time step is usually much larger than the the half life of hydroxyl. How is this computation numerically stable? Is the problem of numerical stability simply ignored?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0909
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.2000
recall_50: 0.4000
recall_100: 0.4000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0946
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1613
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1613
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0182
map_cut_50: 0.0303
map_cut_100: 0.0303
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/Hydroxyl_radical4_6.txt
> destructive action of Hydroxyl Radicals has been implicated in several neurological autoimmune diseases such as HAND when immune cells become over-activated and toxic to neighboring healthy cells.[3]<br>The hydroxyl radical can damage virtually all types of macromolecules: carbohydrates, nucleic acids (mutations), lipids (lipid peroxidation) and amino acids (e.g. conversion of Phe to m-Tyrosine and o-Tyrosine).  PMID 7776173. The hydroxyl radical has a very short in vivo half-life of approximately 10

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) meteorological_versus_astronomical_seasons/Meteorology3_33.txt
> th and 21st centuries, with the advent of computer models and big data, meteorology has become increasingly dependent on numerical methods and computer simulations. This has greatly improved weather forecasting and climate predictions. Additionally, meteorology has expanded to include other areas such as air quality, atmospheric chemistry, and climatology. The advancement in observational, theoretical and computational technologies has enabled ever more accurate weather predictions and understanding of weather pattern and air pollution. In current time, with the advancement in weather forecasting and satellite technology, meteorology has become an integral part of everyday life, and is used for many purposes such as

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/Hydroxyl_radical4_4.txt
> reacts relatively slowly with hydroxyl radical, has an average lifetime of 5 years and many CFCs have lifetimes of 50+ years. Pollutants, such as larger hydrocarbons, can have very short average lifetimes of less than a few hours. <br>The first reaction with many volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is the removal of a hydrogen atom, forming water and an alkyl radical (R•).<br><br>•HO  +  RH →  H2O + R•<br>The alkyl radical will typically react rapidly with oxygen forming a

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/Hydroxyl_radical4_3.txt
> generated by photolysis of 1-Hydroxy-2(1H)-pyridinethione.<br>The hydroxyl radical is often referred to as the "detergent" of the troposphere because it reacts with many pollutants, often acting as the first step to their removal. It also has an important role in eliminating some greenhouse gases like methane and ozone.[2] The rate of reaction with the hydroxyl radical often determines how long many pollutants last in the atmosphere, if they do not undergo photolysis or are rained out. For instance, methane, which

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/Hydroxyl_radical4_9.txt
> (CO) and then carbon dioxide (CO2) is important for assessing the residence time of this greenhouse gas, the overall carbon budget of the troposphere, and its influence on the process of global warming. The lifetime of •HO radicals in the Earth atmosphere is very short, therefore •HO concentrations in the air are very low and very sensitive techniques are required for its direct detection.[8] Global average hydroxyl radical concentrations have been measured indirectly by analyzing methyl chloroform (CH3CCl3) present in the air. The results obtained by Montzka et al. (2011


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/AQCHEM_NOTES_txt3.txt
> episodically, when the maximum number of iterations (100) in the solver is<br>   reached (in which case the timestep for the final iteration is expanded to<br>   the remainder of the cloud lifetime. A design change was implemented so that<br>   now, after reaching 100 iterations, the solver will continue to integrate<br>   using a minimum 1 second timestep for the remainder of the cloud lifetime.<br>   Mass is conserved in the later part of the cloud lifetime, as total mass<br>   available is a limit for the oxidized amount. With this change, the mass<br>   conservation problems were eliminated.<br><br>   Considering that the aqueous chemistry routine was designed to predict<br>   sulfate and not stiff OH-reacting mechanisms, a further design change was

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 32, hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/AQCHEM_NOTES_txt4.txt
> implemented. Previously, OH reactions of glyoxal and methylglyoxal and Hg<br>   (for the multipollutant model) controlled the time step of oxidation<br>   reactions. Now only the sulfur reactions affect dt. In CMAQ’s gas phase, OH<br>   is assumed to be in pseudo-steady state, and it is not a transported species.<br>   This is because hydroxyl radical reactions tend to be catalytic (e.g.,<br>   consumption and production). In the aqueous phase chemistry, OH is absorbed<br>   by cloud water and in an open cloud model (i.e., the design approach<br>   currently employed), absorbed species (e.g., OH) would be replenished via<br>   gas-to-cloud partitioning. However, due to operator splitting, aqueous and<br>   gas-phase chemistry are not solved simultaneously. To account for this and<br>   other uncertainties in predicted OH aqueous phase concentrations (e.g.,

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 10, hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/AQCHEM_NOTES_txt1.txt
> AQCHEM_NOTES - 13 January 2010<br><br>Solver Stability<br><br>   Several problems in the aqueous chemistry routine were uncovered in the<br>   application of the CMAQv4.7 multipollutant model.  In some instances,<br>   sporadic abnormally high sulfate concentrations were simulated (400 ug/m3);<br>   in general, the noted abnormalities were episodic and variable. The aqueous<br>   chemistry subroutine in the multipollutant model includes new reactions with<br>   the hydroxyl radical to convert mercury (Hg) covalence states and to produce<br>   “cloud SOA” (Carlton et al., (2008)). These reaction rate constants are very<br>   fast ~ 1.E10 (L/mol/sec) compared to other reactions in the CMAQ aqueous

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/AQCHEM_NOTES_txt2.txt
> fast ~ 1.E10 (L/mol/sec) compared to other reactions in the CMAQ aqueous<br>   mechanism, (e.g., ~1.E4 for S(IV) oxidation by H2O2). The stiffness resulting<br>   from coupling of faster and slower processes can lead to numerical<br>   instabilities in the forward Euler solver (i.e., the solver employed by<br>   aqchem.F for oxidation reactions).<br><br>   Several changes have been made to address the deficiencies in the aqueous<br>   chemistry solver. More precision was added to select variables to improve the<br>   accuracy of the calculations. Tests demonstrated that mass was not being<br>   conserved for species produced via aqueous phase oxidation reactions during<br>   the last chemistry integration step. This issue is only important

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked not in top 100, hydroxyl_radical_chemistry/AQCHEM_NOTES_txt5.txt
> neglect of production reactions (H2O2 + hv - 2 OH) not currently implemented<br>   in aqchem), a steady-state assumption for OH is adopted in the aqueous<br>   chemistry routine.<br><br>   References:<br><br>    Carlton, A.G., B.J. Turpin, K.E. Altieri, S.P. Seitzinger, R. Mathur,<br>       S.J. Roselle, and R.J. Weber, CMAQ Model Performance Enhanced When<br>       In-Cloud Secondary Organic Aerosol is Included:  Comparison of Organic<br>       Carbon Predictions with Measurements, Environ. Sci. Technol., 42(23),<br>       8798-8802, 2008.
