# Query `87`

## Original Question

*The image below is included in the BBC article Amazing white rainbow snapped over Scottish moor. Apparently this phenomenon is sometimes called a "fog-bow" and is characterized by the washing out of perceived color relative to a conventional rainbow.
Is this related to the geometry (fog being far closer to the viewer) or properties of the droplets themselves? If so, which properties and why?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) fog_bow/Fog_bow5.txt
> Type of rainbow formed by fog droplets<br>Fogbow over a field<br>360-degree fogbow<br>A fog bow, sometimes called a white rainbow,[1] is a similar phenomenon to a rainbow; however, as its name suggests, it appears as a bow in fog rather than rain.[2] Because of the very small size of water droplets that cause fog—smaller than 0.05 millimeters (0.0020 in)—the fog bow has only very weak colors, with a red outer edge and bluish inner edge.[3] The colors fade due to being smeared out by the diffraction effect of the smaller droplets.[4]<br>In many cases, when the droplets are very small, fog bows appear white, and are therefore sometimes called white rainbows. Along with its larger angular size, this lack of color is a feature of a fog bow that distinguishes it from a glory, which has multiple pale-colored rings caused by diffraction. When droplets forming it are almost all of the same size, the fog bow can have multiple inner rings, or supernumeraries, which are more strongly colored than the main bow.  <br><br>Fogbow over the ocean<br>A fog bow seen in clouds, typically from an aircraft looking downwards, is called a cloud bow. Mariners sometimes call fog bows sea-dogs.<br><br><br>Direction[edit]<br>A fog bow is seen in the same direction as a rainbow, thus the sun would be behind the head of the observer and the direction of view would be into a bank of fog (which may not be noticeable in directions away from the bow itself). Its outer radius is slightly less than that of a rainbow.<br>When a fog bow appears at night it is called a lunar fog bow.[5]<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Circumhorizontal arc<br>Circumzenithal arc<br>Cloud iridescence<br>Dewbow<br>Halo<br>Moonbow<br>Sun dog<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ "Amazing white rainbow snapped over Scottish moor". BBC News Online. BBC. 22 November 2016. Retrieved 22 November 2016.<br><br>^ "What is a fogbow?". metoffice.gov.uk/. Met Office. Retrieved 22 November 2016.<br><br>^ See:<br>Atmospheric Optics: Fogbow<br>Auguste Bravais (1847) "Sur le phénomène de l'arc-en-ciel blanc" (On the phenomenon of the white bow in the sky), Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 3rd series, 21:  348–361.<br>H. Mohn (February 23, 1888) "Letters to Nature:  The fog bow and Ulloa's ring," Nature, 37:  391–392.<br>James C. McConnel (March 22, 1888) "Letters to Nature:  The fog bow," Nature, 37: 486–487.<br>James C. McConnel (1890) "The theory of fog-bows," Philosophical Magazine, series 5, 29 (181):  453–461.<br><br>^ APOD: 2006 November 15 - A Fog Bow Over California<br><br>^ Lunar Fogbow<br><br><br>External links[edit]<br><br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fogbows.<br><br>Photos and explanation of fogbows at Atmospheric Optics.<br>Fogbow image gallery at AKM website.<br>Fogbows at Glows, Bows and Haloes site.<br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fog_bow&oldid=1104489477"<br>Categories: Atmospheric optical phenomenaAtmospheric sciencesEarth phenomenaRainbowHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCommons category link from Wikidata<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 15 August 2022, at 08:47 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) forcasting_rainbow/Rainbow3_46.txt
> bows, requiring the Moon to be near-full in order for them to be seen. For the same reason, moonbows are often perceived as white and may be thought of as monochrome. The full spectrum is present, however, but the human eye is not normally sensitive enough to see the colours. Long exposure photographs will sometimes show the colour in this type of rainbow.[57]<br><br>Fogbow<br>Main article: Fog bow<br>Fogbow and glory, as well as a Brocken spectre<br>Fogbows form in the same way as rainbows, but they are

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) forcasting_rainbow/Rainbow3_34.txt
> ular) rainbow or fog bow can occur together. Another atmospheric phenomenon that may be mistaken for a "circular rainbow" is the 22° halo, which is caused by ice crystals rather than liquid water droplets, and is located around the Sun (or Moon), not opposite it.<br><br>Supernumerary rainbows <br>High dynamic range photograph of a rainbow with additional supernumerary bands inside the primary bow<br>In certain circumstances, one or several narrow, faintly coloured bands can be seen bordering the violet edge of a rainbow; i.e., inside the primary bow or,

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) forcasting_rainbow/Rainbow3_35.txt
> much more rarely, outside the secondary. These extra bands are called supernumerary rainbows or supernumerary bands; together with the rainbow itself the phenomenon is also known as a stacker rainbow. The supernumerary bows are slightly detached from the main bow, become successively fainter along with their distance from it, and have pastel colours (consisting mainly of pink, purple and green hues) rather than the usual spectrum pattern.[38] The effect becomes apparent when water droplets are involved that have a diameter of about 1 mm or less; the smaller

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) forcasting_rainbow/Rainbow3_48.txt
> rainbow and much broader. They sometimes appear with a glory at the bow's centre.[58]<br>Fog bows should not be confused with ice halos, which are very common around the world and visible much more often than rainbows (of any order),[59] yet are unrelated to rainbows.


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, fog_bow/Fog_bow5.txt
> Type of rainbow formed by fog droplets<br>Fogbow over a field<br>360-degree fogbow<br>A fog bow, sometimes called a white rainbow,[1] is a similar phenomenon to a rainbow; however, as its name suggests, it appears as a bow in fog rather than rain.[2] Because of the very small size of water droplets that cause fog—smaller than 0.05 millimeters (0.0020 in)—the fog bow has only very weak colors, with a red outer edge and bluish inner edge.[3] The colors fade due to being smeared out by the diffraction effect of the smaller droplets.[4]<br>In many cases, when the droplets are very small, fog bows appear white, and are therefore sometimes called white rainbows. Along with its larger angular size, this lack of color is a feature of a fog bow that distinguishes it from a glory, which has multiple pale-colored rings caused by diffraction. When droplets forming it are almost all of the same size, the fog bow can have multiple inner rings, or supernumeraries, which are more strongly colored than the main bow.  <br><br>Fogbow over the ocean<br>A fog bow seen in clouds, typically from an aircraft looking downwards, is called a cloud bow. Mariners sometimes call fog bows sea-dogs.<br><br><br>Direction[edit]<br>A fog bow is seen in the same direction as a rainbow, thus the sun would be behind the head of the observer and the direction of view would be into a bank of fog (which may not be noticeable in directions away from the bow itself). Its outer radius is slightly less than that of a rainbow.<br>When a fog bow appears at night it is called a lunar fog bow.[5]<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Circumhorizontal arc<br>Circumzenithal arc<br>Cloud iridescence<br>Dewbow<br>Halo<br>Moonbow<br>Sun dog<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ "Amazing white rainbow snapped over Scottish moor". BBC News Online. BBC. 22 November 2016. Retrieved 22 November 2016.<br><br>^ "What is a fogbow?". metoffice.gov.uk/. Met Office. Retrieved 22 November 2016.<br><br>^ See:<br>Atmospheric Optics: Fogbow<br>Auguste Bravais (1847) "Sur le phénomène de l'arc-en-ciel blanc" (On the phenomenon of the white bow in the sky), Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 3rd series, 21:  348–361.<br>H. Mohn (February 23, 1888) "Letters to Nature:  The fog bow and Ulloa's ring," Nature, 37:  391–392.<br>James C. McConnel (March 22, 1888) "Letters to Nature:  The fog bow," Nature, 37: 486–487.<br>James C. McConnel (1890) "The theory of fog-bows," Philosophical Magazine, series 5, 29 (181):  453–461.<br><br>^ APOD: 2006 November 15 - A Fog Bow Over California<br><br>^ Lunar Fogbow<br><br><br>External links[edit]<br><br><br><br>Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fogbows.<br><br>Photos and explanation of fogbows at Atmospheric Optics.<br>Fogbow image gallery at AKM website.<br>Fogbows at Glows, Bows and Haloes site.<br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fog_bow&oldid=1104489477"<br>Categories: Atmospheric optical phenomenaAtmospheric sciencesEarth phenomenaRainbowHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCommons category link from Wikidata<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 15 August 2022, at 08:47 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width
