# Query `91`

## Original Question

*Seems like the Earth Day related crowd sourcing project to create the first global soundscape by encouraging smartphone owners around the world to download and use an app developed to record the sounds around them is interesting, though it's unclear what scientific value it would have. Is there any scientific value to understanding soundscapes on a global basis?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.3333
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2961
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.1667
map_cut_25: 0.1667
map_cut_50: 0.1667
map_cut_100: 0.1667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) remote_sensing/Soundscape3_7.txt
> , however, a search in Google NGram reveals that soundscape had been used in other publications prior to this. More research is needed to establish the historical background in detail.<br>Around the same time as Southworth's project in Boston, Schafer initiated the World Soundscape Project together with colleagues like Barry Truax and Hildegard Westerkamp. Schafer subsequently collected the findings from the world soundscape project and fleshed out the soundscape concept in more detail in his seminal work about the sound environment, "Tuning of the World".[10]  Schafer has also used the

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) remote_sensing/Soundscape_ecology4.txt
> General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Study of the effect of environmental sound on organisms<br>This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)<br><br>This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br> A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br><br> (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>A spectrogram of the soundscape of Mount Rainier National Park in the United States. Highlighted areas show marmot, bird, insect and aircraft noises.<br>Soundscape ecology is the study of the acoustic relationships between living organisms, human and other, and their environment, whether the organisms are marine or terrestrial. First appearing in the Handbook for Acoustic Ecology edited by Barry Truax, in 1978,[1] the term has occasionally been used, sometimes interchangeably, with the term acoustic ecology. Soundscape ecologists also study the relationships between the three basic sources of sound that comprise the soundscape: those generated by organisms are referred to as the biophony; those from non-biological natural categories are classified as the geophony, and those produced by humans, the anthropophony.<br>Increasingly, soundscapes are dominated by a sub-set of anthropophony (sometimes referred to in older, more archaic terminology as "anthropogenic noise"), or technophony, the overwhelming presence of electro-mechanical noise. This sub-class of noise pollution or disturbance may produce a negative effect on a wide range of organisms. Variations in soundscapes as a result of natural phenomena and human endeavor may have wide-ranging ecological effects as many organisms have evolved to respond to acoustic cues that emanate primarily from undisturbed habitats.<br>Soundscape ecologists use recording devices, audio tools, and elements of traditional ecological and acoustic analyses to study soundscape structure. Soundscape ecology has deepened current understandings of ecological issues and established profound visceral connections to ecological data. The preservation of natural soundscapes is now a recognized conservation goal.<br><br><br>Background[edit]<br>As an academic discipline, soundscape ecology shares some characteristics with other fields of inquiry but is also distinct from them in significant ways.[2] For instance, acoustic ecology is also concerned with the study of multiple sound sources. However, acoustic ecology, which derives from the founding work of R. Murray Schafer and Barry Truax, primarily focuses on human perception of soundscapes. Soundscape ecology seeks a broader perspective by considering soundscape effects on communities of living organisms, human and other, and the potential interactions between sounds in the environment.[3] Compared to soundscape ecology, the discipline of bioacoustics tends to have a narrower interest in individual species’ physiological and behavioral mechanisms of auditory communication. Soundscape ecology also borrows heavily from some concepts in landscape ecology, which focuses on ecological patterns and processes occurring over multiple spatial scales.[2][4][5] Landscapes may directly influence soundscapes as some organisms use physical features of their habitat to alter their vocalizations. For example, baboons and other animals exploit specific habitats to generate echoes of the sounds they produce.[2][3]<br>The function and importance of sound in the environment may not be fully appreciated unless one adopts an organismal perspective on sound perception, and, in this way, soundscape ecology is also informed by sensory ecology.[2][4] Sensory ecology focuses on understanding the sensory systems of organisms and the biological function of information obtained from these systems. In many cases, humans must acknowledge that sensory modalities and information used by other organisms may not be obvious from an anthropocentric viewpoint. This perspective has already highlighted many instances where organisms rely heavily on sound cues generated within their natural environments to perform important biological functions. For example, a broad range of crustaceans are known to respond to biophony generated around coral reefs. Species that must settle on reefs to complete their developmental cycle are attracted to reef noise while pelagic and nocturnal crustaceans are repelled by the same acoustic signal, presumably as a mechanism to avoid predation (predator densities are high in reef habitats).[6] Similarly, juvenile fish may use biophony as a navigational cue to locate their natal reefs,[7] and may also be encouraged to resettle damaged coral reefs by playback of healthy reef sound.[8] Other species’ movement patterns are influenced by geophony, as in the case of the reed frog which is known to disperse away from the sound of fire.[9] In addition, a variety of bird and mammal species use auditory cues, such as movement noise, in order to locate prey.[10] Disturbances created by periods of environmental noise may also be exploited by some animals while foraging. For example, insects that prey on spiders concentrate foraging activities during episodes of environmental noise to avoid detection by their prey.[11] These examples demonstrate that many organisms are highly capable of extracting information from soundscapes.<br><br>Terminology[edit]<br>Natural soundscapes include natural but non-biological "geophonic" sounds (such as the water of the ocean) and the "biophonic" sounds of animals (such as bird calls).<br>According to academic Bernie Krause, soundscape ecology serves as a lens into other fields including medicine, music, dance, philosophy, environmental studies, etc. (the soundscape).[12][2] Krause sees the soundscape of a given region as the sum of three separate sound sources (as described by Gage and Krause) defined as follows:<br><br>Geophony, from the Greek prefix, geo, meaning earth-related, and phon, meaning sound, is a neologism used to describe one of three possible sonic components of a soundscape. It relates to the naturally occurring non-biological sounds coming from different types of habitats, whether marine or terrestrial.[13] Typically, geophony refers to the sounds of natural forces, such as water, wind, and thunder, occurring in wild, relatively undisturbed habitats.[14]  But geophony is not limited to that narrow definition since these audio sources can be experienced nearly everywhere the effects of wind and water are expressed.<br>Biophony is a term introduced by Krause, who in 1998, first began to express the soundscape in terms of its acoustic sources. The biophony refers to the collective acoustic signatures generated by all sound-producing organisms in a given habitat at a given moment. It includes vocalizations that are used for conspecific communication in some cases. Biophony consists of the Greek prefix, bio, meaning life, and the suffix, phon, meaning sound, is a neologism used to describe the collective sound that vocalizing animals create in each given environment. It explores new definitions of animal territory as defined by biophony, and addresses changes in density, diversity, and richness of animal populations. Mapping soundscapes can help to illustrate possible driving mechanisms and provide a valuable tool for urban management and planning.[5] However, quantifying biophony across urban landscapes has proven difficult in the presence of anthrophony, or sounds generated by humans. The metric percent biophony (PB) can be used to quantify biophony while avoiding noise bias.[5] The complete absence of biophony or geophony in a given biome would be expressed as dysphonia (from the Greek meaning the inability to produce a proper collective voice in this case). The niche hypothesis (also known as the acoustic niche hypothesis; ANH),[15] an early version of the term biophony, describes the acoustic bandwidth partitioning process that occurs in still-wild biomes by which non-human organisms adjust their vocalizations by frequency and time-shifting to compensate for vocal territory occupied by other vocal creatures. Thus each species evolves to establish and maintain its own acoustic bandwidth so that its voice is not masked. For instance, notable examples of clear partitioning and species discrimination can be found in the spectrograms derived from the biophonic recordings made in most uncompromised tropical and subtropical rain forests. Additional studies with certain insects and amphibians tend to confirm the hypothesis.[16][17]<br>Anthropophony is another term introduced by Krause along with colleague, Stuart Gage. It represents human generated sound from either humans, themselves, or the electro-mechanical technologies they employ. The term, anthropophony, consisting of the Greek prefix, anthropo, meaning human, and the suffix, phon, meaning sound is a neologism used to describe all sound produced by humans, whether coherent, such as music, theatre, and language, or incoherent and chaotic such as random signals generated primarily by electromechanical means.[18][19] Anthropophony is divided into two sub-categories. Controlled sound, such as music, language, and theatre, and chaotic or incoherent sound sometimes referred to as noise.[20]<br>According to Krause various combinations of these acoustic expressions across space and time generate unique soundscapes.[citation needed]<br>Soundscape ecologists seek to investigate the structure of soundscapes, explain how they are generated, and study how organisms interrelate acoustically. A number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the structure of soundscapes, particularly elements of biophony. For instance, an ecological theory known as the acoustic adaptation hypothesis predicts that acoustic signals of animals are altered in different physical environments in order to maximize their propagation through the habitat.[2][20] In addition, acoustic signals from organisms may be under selective pressure to minimize their frequency (pitch) overlap with other auditory features of the environment. This acoustic niche hypothesis  is analogous to the classical ecological concept of niche partitioning. It suggests that acoustic signals in the environment should display frequency partitioning as a result of selection acting to maximize the effectiveness of intraspecific communication for different species. Observations of frequency differentiation among insects, birds, and anurans support the acoustic niche hypothesis.[21][3] Organisms may also partition their vocalization frequencies to avoid overlap with pervasive geophonic sounds. For example, territorial communication in some frog species takes place partially in the high frequency ultrasonic spectrum.[22] This communication method represents an evolutionary adaptation to the frogs' riparian habitat where running water produces constant low frequency sound. Invasive species that introduce new sounds into soundscapes can disrupt acoustic niche partitioning in native communities, a process known as biophonic invasion.[4] Although adaptation to acoustic niches may explain the frequency structure of soundscapes, spatial variation in sound is likely to be generated by environmental gradients in altitude, latitude, or habitat disturbance.[4] These gradients may alter the relative contributions of biophony, geophony, and anthrophony to the soundscape. For example, when compared with unaltered habitats, regions with high levels of urban land-use are likely to have increased levels of anthrophony and decreased physical and organismal sound sources. Soundscapes typically exhibit temporal patterns, with daily and seasonal cycles being particularly prominent.[4] These patterns are often generated by the communities of organisms that contribute to biophony. For example, birds chorus heavily at dawn and dusk while anurans call primarily at night; the timing of these vocalization events may have evolved to minimize temporal overlap with other elements of the soundscape.[4][23]<br><br>Methods[edit]<br>Acoustic information describing the environment is the primary data required in soundscape ecology studies. Technological advances have provided improved methods for the collection of such data. Automated recording systems allow for temporally replicated samples of soundscapes to be gathered with relative ease. Data collected from such equipment can be extracted to generate a visual representation of the soundscape in the form of a spectrogram.[2] Spectrograms provide information on a number of sound properties that may be subject to quantitative analysis. The vertical axis of a spectrogram indicates the frequency of a sound while the horizontal axis displays the time scale over which sounds were recorded. In addition, spectrograms display the amplitude of sound, a measure of sound intensity. Ecological indices traditionally used with species-level data, such as diversity and evenness, have been adapted for use with acoustic metrics.[2] These measures provide a method of comparing soundscapes across time or space. For example, automated recording devices have been used to gather acoustic data in different landscapes across yearlong time scales, and diversity metrics were employed to evaluate daily and seasonal fluctuations in soundscapes across sites. The demise of a habitat can be seen by measuring before and after "logging" for example.[24][2]  Spatial patterns of sound may also be studied using tools familiar to landscape ecologists such as geographic information systems (GIS).[4] Finally, recorded samples of the soundscape can provide proxy measures for biodiversity inventories in cases where other sampling methods are impractical or inefficient.[25] These techniques may be especially important for the study of rare or elusive species that are especially difficult to monitor in other ways.<br><br>Insights from soundscape ecology: anthropophony[edit]<br>Although soundscape ecology has only recently been defined as an independent academic discipline (it was first described in 2011 and formalized at the first meeting of the International Society of Ecoacoustics, held in Paris in 2014), many earlier ecological investigations have incorporated elements of soundscape ecology theory. For instance, a large body of work has focused on documenting the effects of anthropophony on wildlife. Anthropophony (the uncontrolled version, is often used synonymously with noise pollution) can emanate from a variety of sources, including transportation networks or industry, and may represent a pervasive disturbance to natural systems even in seemingly remote regions such as national parks.[10] A major effect of noise is the masking of organismal acoustic signals that contain information. Against a noisy background, organisms may have trouble perceiving sounds that are important for intraspecific communication, foraging, predator recognition, or a variety of other ecological functions.[10] In this way, anthropogenic noise may represent a soundscape interaction wherein increased anthropophony interferes with biophonic processes. The negative effects of anthropogenic noise impact a wide variety of taxa including fish, amphibians, birds, and mammals.[26] In addition to interfering with ecologically important sounds, anthropophony can also directly affect the biological systems of organisms. Noise exposure, which may be perceived as a threat, can lead to physiological changes.[10] For example, noise can increase levels of stress hormones, impair cognition, reduce immune function, and induce DNA damage.[27] Although much of the research on anthropogenic noise has focused on behavioral and population-level responses to noise disturbance, these molecular and cellular systems may prove promising areas for future work.<br><br>Anthropophony and birds[edit]<br>Anthropophony, sound generated from human activities, plays an important role in contemporary soundscapes.<br>Birds have been used as study organisms in much of the research concerning wildlife responses to anthropogenic noise, and the resulting literature documents many effects that are relevant to other taxa affected by anthropophony. Birds may be particularly sensitive to noise pollution given that they rely heavily on acoustic signals for intraspecific communication. Indeed, a wide range of studies demonstrate that birds use altered songs in noisy environments.[26] Research on great tits in an urban environment revealed that male birds inhabiting noisy territories tended to use higher frequency sounds in their songs.[28] Presumably these higher-pitched songs allow male birds to be heard above anthropogenic noise, which tends to have high energy in the lower frequency range thereby masking sounds in that spectra. A follow-up study of multiple populations confirmed that great tits in urban areas sing with an increased minimum frequency relative to forest-dwelling birds.[29] In addition, this study suggests that noisy urban habitats host birds that use shorter songs but repeat them more rapidly. In contrast to frequency modulations, birds may simply increase the amplitude (loudness) of their songs to decrease masking in environments with elevated noise.[30] Experimental work and field observations show that these song alterations may be the result of behavioral plasticity rather than evolutionary adaptations to noise (i.e., birds actively change their song repertoire depending on the acoustic conditions they experience).[31] In fact, avian vocal adjustments to anthropogenic noise are unlikely to be the products of evolutionary change simply because high noise levels are a relatively recent selection pressure.[23] However, not all bird species adjust their songs to improve communication in noisy environments, which may limit their ability to occupy habitats subject to anthropogenic noise.[32] In some species, individual birds establish a relatively rigid vocal repertoire when they are young, and these sorts of developmental constraints may limit their ability to make vocal adjustments later in life.[23] Thus, species that do not or cannot modify their songs may be particularly sensitive to habitat degradation as a result of noise pollution.[28][32]<br><br>Effects of anthropophony on auditory communication are well studied in the great tit.<br>Even among birds that are able to alter their songs to be better heard in environments inundated with anthropophony, these behavioral changes may have important fitness consequences. In the great tit, for example, there is a tradeoff between signal strength and signal detection that depends on song frequency.[33] Male birds that include more low frequency sounds in their song repertoire experience better sexual fidelity from their mates which results in increased reproductive success. However, low frequency sounds tend to be masked when anthropogenic noise is present, and high frequency songs are more effective at eliciting female responses under these conditions. Birds may therefore experience competing selective pressures in habitats with high levels of anthropogenic noise: pressure to call more at lower frequencies in order to improve signal strength and secure good mates versus opposing pressure to sing at higher frequencies in order to ensure that calls are detected against a background of anthrophony. In addition, use of certain vocalizations, including high amplitude sounds that reduce masking in noisy environments, may impose energetic costs that reduce fitness.[23] Because of the reproductive trade-offs and other stresses they impose on some birds, noisy habitats may represent ecological traps, habitats in which individuals have reduced fitness yet are colonized at rates greater than or equal to other habitats.[26][34]<br>Anthropophony may ultimately have population- or community-level impacts on avian fauna. One study focusing on community composition found that habitats exposed to anthropophony hosted fewer bird species than regions without noise, but both areas had similar numbers of nests.[35] In fact, nests in noisy habitats had higher survival than those laid in control habitats, presumably because noisy environments hosted fewer western scrub jays which are major nest predators of other birds. Thus, anthropophony can have negative effects on local species diversity, but the species capable of coping with noise disturbance may actually benefit from the exclusion of negative species interactions in those areas. Other experiments suggest that noise pollution has the potential to affect avian mating systems by altering the strength of pair bonds. When exposed to high amplitude environmental noise in a laboratory setting, zebra finches, a monogamous species, show a decreased preference for their mated partners.[36] Similarly, male reed buntings in quiet environments are more likely to be part of a mated pair than males in noisy locations.[31] Such effects may ultimately result in reduced reproductive output of birds subject to high levels of environmental noise.[37]<br><br>Soundscape conservation[edit]<br>The discipline of conservation biology has traditionally been concerned with the preservation of biodiversity and the habitats that organisms are dependent upon. However, soundscape ecology encourages biologists to consider natural soundscapes as resources worthy of conservation efforts. Soundscapes that come from relatively untrammeled habitats have value for wildlife as demonstrated by the numerous negative effects of anthropogenic noise on various species.[10] Organisms that use acoustic cues generated by their prey may be particularly impacted by human-altered soundscapes.[38] In this situation, the (unintentional) senders of the acoustic signals will have no incentive to compensate for masking imposed by anthropogenic sound. In addition, natural soundscapes can have benefits for human wellbeing and may help generate a distinct sense of place, connecting people to the environment and providing unique aesthetic experiences.[25] Because of the various values inherent in natural soundscapes, they may be considered ecosystem services that are provisioned by intact, functioning ecosystems.[2] Targets for soundscape conservation may include soundscapes necessary for the persistence of threatened wildlife, soundscapes that are themselves being severely altered by anthrophony, and soundscapes that represent unique places or cultural values.[25] Some governments and management agencies have begun to consider preservation of natural soundscapes as an environmental priority.[39][40][41] In the United States, the National Park Service's Natural Sounds and Night Skies Division is working to protect natural and cultural soundscapes.<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Acoustic ecology<br>Aphonia<br>Bioacoustics<br>Ecoacoustics<br>Soundscape<br>Spectrogram<br>Zoomusicology<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Truax, Barry (1978). Handbook for Acoustic Ecology, A. R. C Publications, Vancouver, BC.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g h i j Pijanowski, B. C.; Villanueva-Rivera, L. J.; Dumyahn, S. L.; Farina, A.; Krause, B. L.; Napoletano, B. M.; Gage, S. H.; Pieretti, N. (2011). "Soundscape Ecology: The Science of Sound in the Landscape". BioScience. 61 (3): 203. doi:10.1525/bio.2011.61.3.6.<br><br>^ a b c Krause, Bernie. (2012). "The Great Animal Orchestra: Finding the Origins of Music in the World's Wild Places," Little Brown/Hachette, New York.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g Pijanowski, B. C.; Farina, A.; Gage, S. H.; Dumyahn, S. L.; Krause, B. L. (2011). "What is soundscape ecology? An introduction and overview of an emerging new science". Landscape Ecology. 26 (9): 1213. doi:10.1007/s10980-011-9600-8. S2CID 29097340.<br><br>^ a b c Dein, Jacob; Rüdisser, Johannes (2020-07-03). "Landscape influence on biophony in an urban environment in the European Alps". Landscape Ecology. 35 (8): 1875–1889. doi:10.1007/s10980-020-01049-x. ISSN 0921-2973.<br><br>^ Simpson, S. D.; Radford, A. N.; Tickle, E. J.; Meekan, M. G.; Jeffs, A. G. (2011). Klimley, A. Peter (ed.). "Adaptive Avoidance of Reef Noise". PLOS ONE. 6 (2): e16625. Bibcode:2011PLoSO...616625S. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0016625. PMC 3033890. PMID 21326604.<br><br>^ Simpson, S. D.; Meekan, M.; Montgomery, J.; McCauley, R.; Jeffs, A. (2005). "Homeward Sound". Science. 308 (5719): 221. doi:10.1126/science.1107406. PMID 15821083. S2CID 1064954.<br><br>^ Gordon, Timothy A. C.; Radford, Andrew N.; Davidson, Isla K.; Barnes, Kasey; McCloskey, Kieran; Nedelec, Sophie L.; Meekan, Mark G.; McCormick, Mark I.; Simpson, Stephen D. (2019-11-29). "Acoustic enrichment can enhance fish community development on degraded coral reef habitat". Nature Communications. 10 (1): 5414. Bibcode:2019NatCo..10.5414G. doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13186-2. ISSN 2041-1723. PMC 6884498. PMID 31784508.<br><br>^ Grafe, T. U.; Dobler, S.; Linsenmair, K. E. (2002). "Frogs flee from the sound of fire". Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 269 (1495): 999–1003. doi:10.1098/rspb.2002.1974. PMC 1690992. PMID 12028755.<br><br>^ a b c d e Barber, J. R.; Crooks, K. R.; Fristrup, K. M. (2010). "The costs of chronic noise exposure for terrestrial organisms". Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 25 (3): 180–9. doi:10.1016/j.tree.2009.08.002. PMID 19762112.<br><br>^ Wignall, A. E.; Jackson, R. R.; Wilcox, R. S.; Taylor, P. W. (2011). "Exploitation of environmental noise by an araneophagic assassin bug". Animal Behaviour. 82 (5): 1037. doi:10.1016/j.anbehav.2011.07.038. S2CID 53148100.<br><br>^ Krause, Bernie (August, 2015). Voices of the Wild, Yale University Press, New Haven, Connecticut.<br><br>^ "Studying Nature's Rhythms: Soundscape Scientists Spawn New Field". National Science Foundation. Retrieved 7 March 2019.<br><br>^ Dybas, Cheryl. "Soundscape Ecology: Studying Nature's Rhythms". Ecology. Retrieved 7 March 2019.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) remote_sensing/Soundscape3_15.txt
> of the prefix, geo (gr. earth), and phon (gr. sound), this refers to the soundscape sources that are generated by non-biological natural sources such as wind in the trees, water in a stream or waves at the ocean, and earth movement, the first sounds heard on earth by any sound-sentient organism.<br>Biophony<br>Consisting of the prefix, bio (gr. life) and the suffix for sound, this term refers to all of the non-human, non-domestic biological soundscape sources of sound.<br>Anthropophony

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) pole_flip/Cosmic_ray8_7.txt
> . A fifth method, involving bubble chambers, can be used to detect cosmic ray particles.<br>More recently, the CMOS devices in pervasive smartphone cameras have been proposed as a practical distributed network to detect air showers from ultra-high-energy cosmic rays. The first app to exploit this proposition was the CRAYFIS (Cosmic RAYs Found in Smartphones) experiment. In 2017, the CREDO (Cosmic-Ray Extremely Distributed Observatory) Collaboration released the first version of its completely open source app for Android devices. Since then the collaboration has attracted the interest and

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) remote_sensing/Soundscape3_4.txt
> humans, the anthropophony through a sub-set called controlled sound, such as musical composition, sound design, and language, work, and sounds of mechanical origin resulting from use of industrial technology. Crucially, the term soundscape also includes the listener's perception of sounds heard as an environment: "how that environment is understood by those living within it"[4] and therefore mediates their relations. The disruption of these acoustic environments results in noise pollution.[5]<br>The term "soundscape" can also refer to an audio recording or performance of sounds that create the sensation of experiencing a particular


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, remote_sensing/Soundscape_ecology4.txt
> General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Study of the effect of environmental sound on organisms<br>This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)<br><br>This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br> A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br><br> (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br>A spectrogram of the soundscape of Mount Rainier National Park in the United States. Highlighted areas show marmot, bird, insect and aircraft noises.<br>Soundscape ecology is the study of the acoustic relationships between living organisms, human and other, and their environment, whether the organisms are marine or terrestrial. First appearing in the Handbook for Acoustic Ecology edited by Barry Truax, in 1978,[1] the term has occasionally been used, sometimes interchangeably, with the term acoustic ecology. Soundscape ecologists also study the relationships between the three basic sources of sound that comprise the soundscape: those generated by organisms are referred to as the biophony; those from non-biological natural categories are classified as the geophony, and those produced by humans, the anthropophony.<br>Increasingly, soundscapes are dominated by a sub-set of anthropophony (sometimes referred to in older, more archaic terminology as "anthropogenic noise"), or technophony, the overwhelming presence of electro-mechanical noise. This sub-class of noise pollution or disturbance may produce a negative effect on a wide range of organisms. Variations in soundscapes as a result of natural phenomena and human endeavor may have wide-ranging ecological effects as many organisms have evolved to respond to acoustic cues that emanate primarily from undisturbed habitats.<br>Soundscape ecologists use recording devices, audio tools, and elements of traditional ecological and acoustic analyses to study soundscape structure. Soundscape ecology has deepened current understandings of ecological issues and established profound visceral connections to ecological data. The preservation of natural soundscapes is now a recognized conservation goal.<br><br><br>Background[edit]<br>As an academic discipline, soundscape ecology shares some characteristics with other fields of inquiry but is also distinct from them in significant ways.[2] For instance, acoustic ecology is also concerned with the study of multiple sound sources. However, acoustic ecology, which derives from the founding work of R. Murray Schafer and Barry Truax, primarily focuses on human perception of soundscapes. Soundscape ecology seeks a broader perspective by considering soundscape effects on communities of living organisms, human and other, and the potential interactions between sounds in the environment.[3] Compared to soundscape ecology, the discipline of bioacoustics tends to have a narrower interest in individual species’ physiological and behavioral mechanisms of auditory communication. Soundscape ecology also borrows heavily from some concepts in landscape ecology, which focuses on ecological patterns and processes occurring over multiple spatial scales.[2][4][5] Landscapes may directly influence soundscapes as some organisms use physical features of their habitat to alter their vocalizations. For example, baboons and other animals exploit specific habitats to generate echoes of the sounds they produce.[2][3]<br>The function and importance of sound in the environment may not be fully appreciated unless one adopts an organismal perspective on sound perception, and, in this way, soundscape ecology is also informed by sensory ecology.[2][4] Sensory ecology focuses on understanding the sensory systems of organisms and the biological function of information obtained from these systems. In many cases, humans must acknowledge that sensory modalities and information used by other organisms may not be obvious from an anthropocentric viewpoint. This perspective has already highlighted many instances where organisms rely heavily on sound cues generated within their natural environments to perform important biological functions. For example, a broad range of crustaceans are known to respond to biophony generated around coral reefs. Species that must settle on reefs to complete their developmental cycle are attracted to reef noise while pelagic and nocturnal crustaceans are repelled by the same acoustic signal, presumably as a mechanism to avoid predation (predator densities are high in reef habitats).[6] Similarly, juvenile fish may use biophony as a navigational cue to locate their natal reefs,[7] and may also be encouraged to resettle damaged coral reefs by playback of healthy reef sound.[8] Other species’ movement patterns are influenced by geophony, as in the case of the reed frog which is known to disperse away from the sound of fire.[9] In addition, a variety of bird and mammal species use auditory cues, such as movement noise, in order to locate prey.[10] Disturbances created by periods of environmental noise may also be exploited by some animals while foraging. For example, insects that prey on spiders concentrate foraging activities during episodes of environmental noise to avoid detection by their prey.[11] These examples demonstrate that many organisms are highly capable of extracting information from soundscapes.<br><br>Terminology[edit]<br>Natural soundscapes include natural but non-biological "geophonic" sounds (such as the water of the ocean) and the "biophonic" sounds of animals (such as bird calls).<br>According to academic Bernie Krause, soundscape ecology serves as a lens into other fields including medicine, music, dance, philosophy, environmental studies, etc. (the soundscape).[12][2] Krause sees the soundscape of a given region as the sum of three separate sound sources (as described by Gage and Krause) defined as follows:<br><br>Geophony, from the Greek prefix, geo, meaning earth-related, and phon, meaning sound, is a neologism used to describe one of three possible sonic components of a soundscape. It relates to the naturally occurring non-biological sounds coming from different types of habitats, whether marine or terrestrial.[13] Typically, geophony refers to the sounds of natural forces, such as water, wind, and thunder, occurring in wild, relatively undisturbed habitats.[14]  But geophony is not limited to that narrow definition since these audio sources can be experienced nearly everywhere the effects of wind and water are expressed.<br>Biophony is a term introduced by Krause, who in 1998, first began to express the soundscape in terms of its acoustic sources. The biophony refers to the collective acoustic signatures generated by all sound-producing organisms in a given habitat at a given moment. It includes vocalizations that are used for conspecific communication in some cases. Biophony consists of the Greek prefix, bio, meaning life, and the suffix, phon, meaning sound, is a neologism used to describe the collective sound that vocalizing animals create in each given environment. It explores new definitions of animal territory as defined by biophony, and addresses changes in density, diversity, and richness of animal populations. Mapping soundscapes can help to illustrate possible driving mechanisms and provide a valuable tool for urban management and planning.[5] However, quantifying biophony across urban landscapes has proven difficult in the presence of anthrophony, or sounds generated by humans. The metric percent biophony (PB) can be used to quantify biophony while avoiding noise bias.[5] The complete absence of biophony or geophony in a given biome would be expressed as dysphonia (from the Greek meaning the inability to produce a proper collective voice in this case). The niche hypothesis (also known as the acoustic niche hypothesis; ANH),[15] an early version of the term biophony, describes the acoustic bandwidth partitioning process that occurs in still-wild biomes by which non-human organisms adjust their vocalizations by frequency and time-shifting to compensate for vocal territory occupied by other vocal creatures. Thus each species evolves to establish and maintain its own acoustic bandwidth so that its voice is not masked. For instance, notable examples of clear partitioning and species discrimination can be found in the spectrograms derived from the biophonic recordings made in most uncompromised tropical and subtropical rain forests. Additional studies with certain insects and amphibians tend to confirm the hypothesis.[16][17]<br>Anthropophony is another term introduced by Krause along with colleague, Stuart Gage. It represents human generated sound from either humans, themselves, or the electro-mechanical technologies they employ. The term, anthropophony, consisting of the Greek prefix, anthropo, meaning human, and the suffix, phon, meaning sound is a neologism used to describe all sound produced by humans, whether coherent, such as music, theatre, and language, or incoherent and chaotic such as random signals generated primarily by electromechanical means.[18][19] Anthropophony is divided into two sub-categories. Controlled sound, such as music, language, and theatre, and chaotic or incoherent sound sometimes referred to as noise.[20]<br>According to Krause various combinations of these acoustic expressions across space and time generate unique soundscapes.[citation needed]<br>Soundscape ecologists seek to investigate the structure of soundscapes, explain how they are generated, and study how organisms interrelate acoustically. A number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the structure of soundscapes, particularly elements of biophony. For instance, an ecological theory known as the acoustic adaptation hypothesis predicts that acoustic signals of animals are altered in different physical environments in order to maximize their propagation through the habitat.[2][20] In addition, acoustic signals from organisms may be under selective pressure to minimize their frequency (pitch) overlap with other auditory features of the environment. This acoustic niche hypothesis  is analogous to the classical ecological concept of niche partitioning. It suggests that acoustic signals in the environment should display frequency partitioning as a result of selection acting to maximize the effectiveness of intraspecific communication for different species. Observations of frequency differentiation among insects, birds, and anurans support the acoustic niche hypothesis.[21][3] Organisms may also partition their vocalization frequencies to avoid overlap with pervasive geophonic sounds. For example, territorial communication in some frog species takes place partially in the high frequency ultrasonic spectrum.[22] This communication method represents an evolutionary adaptation to the frogs' riparian habitat where running water produces constant low frequency sound. Invasive species that introduce new sounds into soundscapes can disrupt acoustic niche partitioning in native communities, a process known as biophonic invasion.[4] Although adaptation to acoustic niches may explain the frequency structure of soundscapes, spatial variation in sound is likely to be generated by environmental gradients in altitude, latitude, or habitat disturbance.[4] These gradients may alter the relative contributions of biophony, geophony, and anthrophony to the soundscape. For example, when compared with unaltered habitats, regions with high levels of urban land-use are likely to have increased levels of anthrophony and decreased physical and organismal sound sources. Soundscapes typically exhibit temporal patterns, with daily and seasonal cycles being particularly prominent.[4] These patterns are often generated by the communities of organisms that contribute to biophony. For example, birds chorus heavily at dawn and dusk while anurans call primarily at night; the timing of these vocalization events may have evolved to minimize temporal overlap with other elements of the soundscape.[4][23]<br><br>Methods[edit]<br>Acoustic information describing the environment is the primary data required in soundscape ecology studies. Technological advances have provided improved methods for the collection of such data. Automated recording systems allow for temporally replicated samples of soundscapes to be gathered with relative ease. Data collected from such equipment can be extracted to generate a visual representation of the soundscape in the form of a spectrogram.[2] Spectrograms provide information on a number of sound properties that may be subject to quantitative analysis. The vertical axis of a spectrogram indicates the frequency of a sound while the horizontal axis displays the time scale over which sounds were recorded. In addition, spectrograms display the amplitude of sound, a measure of sound intensity. Ecological indices traditionally used with species-level data, such as diversity and evenness, have been adapted for use with acoustic metrics.[2] These measures provide a method of comparing soundscapes across time or space. For example, automated recording devices have been used to gather acoustic data in different landscapes across yearlong time scales, and diversity metrics were employed to evaluate daily and seasonal fluctuations in soundscapes across sites. The demise of a habitat can be seen by measuring before and after "logging" for example.[24][2]  Spatial patterns of sound may also be studied using tools familiar to landscape ecologists such as geographic information systems (GIS).[4] Finally, recorded samples of the soundscape can provide proxy measures for biodiversity inventories in cases where other sampling methods are impractical or inefficient.[25] These techniques may be especially important for the study of rare or elusive species that are especially difficult to monitor in other ways.<br><br>Insights from soundscape ecology: anthropophony[edit]<br>Although soundscape ecology has only recently been defined as an independent academic discipline (it was first described in 2011 and formalized at the first meeting of the International Society of Ecoacoustics, held in Paris in 2014), many earlier ecological investigations have incorporated elements of soundscape ecology theory. For instance, a large body of work has focused on documenting the effects of anthropophony on wildlife. Anthropophony (the uncontrolled version, is often used synonymously with noise pollution) can emanate from a variety of sources, including transportation networks or industry, and may represent a pervasive disturbance to natural systems even in seemingly remote regions such as national parks.[10] A major effect of noise is the masking of organismal acoustic signals that contain information. Against a noisy background, organisms may have trouble perceiving sounds that are important for intraspecific communication, foraging, predator recognition, or a variety of other ecological functions.[10] In this way, anthropogenic noise may represent a soundscape interaction wherein increased anthropophony interferes with biophonic processes. The negative effects of anthropogenic noise impact a wide variety of taxa including fish, amphibians, birds, and mammals.[26] In addition to interfering with ecologically important sounds, anthropophony can also directly affect the biological systems of organisms. Noise exposure, which may be perceived as a threat, can lead to physiological changes.[10] For example, noise can increase levels of stress hormones, impair cognition, reduce immune function, and induce DNA damage.[27] Although much of the research on anthropogenic noise has focused on behavioral and population-level responses to noise disturbance, these molecular and cellular systems may prove promising areas for future work.<br><br>Anthropophony and birds[edit]<br>Anthropophony, sound generated from human activities, plays an important role in contemporary soundscapes.<br>Birds have been used as study organisms in much of the research concerning wildlife responses to anthropogenic noise, and the resulting literature documents many effects that are relevant to other taxa affected by anthropophony. Birds may be particularly sensitive to noise pollution given that they rely heavily on acoustic signals for intraspecific communication. Indeed, a wide range of studies demonstrate that birds use altered songs in noisy environments.[26] Research on great tits in an urban environment revealed that male birds inhabiting noisy territories tended to use higher frequency sounds in their songs.[28] Presumably these higher-pitched songs allow male birds to be heard above anthropogenic noise, which tends to have high energy in the lower frequency range thereby masking sounds in that spectra. A follow-up study of multiple populations confirmed that great tits in urban areas sing with an increased minimum frequency relative to forest-dwelling birds.[29] In addition, this study suggests that noisy urban habitats host birds that use shorter songs but repeat them more rapidly. In contrast to frequency modulations, birds may simply increase the amplitude (loudness) of their songs to decrease masking in environments with elevated noise.[30] Experimental work and field observations show that these song alterations may be the result of behavioral plasticity rather than evolutionary adaptations to noise (i.e., birds actively change their song repertoire depending on the acoustic conditions they experience).[31] In fact, avian vocal adjustments to anthropogenic noise are unlikely to be the products of evolutionary change simply because high noise levels are a relatively recent selection pressure.[23] However, not all bird species adjust their songs to improve communication in noisy environments, which may limit their ability to occupy habitats subject to anthropogenic noise.[32] In some species, individual birds establish a relatively rigid vocal repertoire when they are young, and these sorts of developmental constraints may limit their ability to make vocal adjustments later in life.[23] Thus, species that do not or cannot modify their songs may be particularly sensitive to habitat degradation as a result of noise pollution.[28][32]<br><br>Effects of anthropophony on auditory communication are well studied in the great tit.<br>Even among birds that are able to alter their songs to be better heard in environments inundated with anthropophony, these behavioral changes may have important fitness consequences. In the great tit, for example, there is a tradeoff between signal strength and signal detection that depends on song frequency.[33] Male birds that include more low frequency sounds in their song repertoire experience better sexual fidelity from their mates which results in increased reproductive success. However, low frequency sounds tend to be masked when anthropogenic noise is present, and high frequency songs are more effective at eliciting female responses under these conditions. Birds may therefore experience competing selective pressures in habitats with high levels of anthropogenic noise: pressure to call more at lower frequencies in order to improve signal strength and secure good mates versus opposing pressure to sing at higher frequencies in order to ensure that calls are detected against a background of anthrophony. In addition, use of certain vocalizations, including high amplitude sounds that reduce masking in noisy environments, may impose energetic costs that reduce fitness.[23] Because of the reproductive trade-offs and other stresses they impose on some birds, noisy habitats may represent ecological traps, habitats in which individuals have reduced fitness yet are colonized at rates greater than or equal to other habitats.[26][34]<br>Anthropophony may ultimately have population- or community-level impacts on avian fauna. One study focusing on community composition found that habitats exposed to anthropophony hosted fewer bird species than regions without noise, but both areas had similar numbers of nests.[35] In fact, nests in noisy habitats had higher survival than those laid in control habitats, presumably because noisy environments hosted fewer western scrub jays which are major nest predators of other birds. Thus, anthropophony can have negative effects on local species diversity, but the species capable of coping with noise disturbance may actually benefit from the exclusion of negative species interactions in those areas. Other experiments suggest that noise pollution has the potential to affect avian mating systems by altering the strength of pair bonds. When exposed to high amplitude environmental noise in a laboratory setting, zebra finches, a monogamous species, show a decreased preference for their mated partners.[36] Similarly, male reed buntings in quiet environments are more likely to be part of a mated pair than males in noisy locations.[31] Such effects may ultimately result in reduced reproductive output of birds subject to high levels of environmental noise.[37]<br><br>Soundscape conservation[edit]<br>The discipline of conservation biology has traditionally been concerned with the preservation of biodiversity and the habitats that organisms are dependent upon. However, soundscape ecology encourages biologists to consider natural soundscapes as resources worthy of conservation efforts. Soundscapes that come from relatively untrammeled habitats have value for wildlife as demonstrated by the numerous negative effects of anthropogenic noise on various species.[10] Organisms that use acoustic cues generated by their prey may be particularly impacted by human-altered soundscapes.[38] In this situation, the (unintentional) senders of the acoustic signals will have no incentive to compensate for masking imposed by anthropogenic sound. In addition, natural soundscapes can have benefits for human wellbeing and may help generate a distinct sense of place, connecting people to the environment and providing unique aesthetic experiences.[25] Because of the various values inherent in natural soundscapes, they may be considered ecosystem services that are provisioned by intact, functioning ecosystems.[2] Targets for soundscape conservation may include soundscapes necessary for the persistence of threatened wildlife, soundscapes that are themselves being severely altered by anthrophony, and soundscapes that represent unique places or cultural values.[25] Some governments and management agencies have begun to consider preservation of natural soundscapes as an environmental priority.[39][40][41] In the United States, the National Park Service's Natural Sounds and Night Skies Division is working to protect natural and cultural soundscapes.<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Acoustic ecology<br>Aphonia<br>Bioacoustics<br>Ecoacoustics<br>Soundscape<br>Spectrogram<br>Zoomusicology<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Truax, Barry (1978). Handbook for Acoustic Ecology, A. R. C Publications, Vancouver, BC.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g h i j Pijanowski, B. C.; Villanueva-Rivera, L. J.; Dumyahn, S. L.; Farina, A.; Krause, B. L.; Napoletano, B. M.; Gage, S. H.; Pieretti, N. (2011). "Soundscape Ecology: The Science of Sound in the Landscape". BioScience. 61 (3): 203. doi:10.1525/bio.2011.61.3.6.<br><br>^ a b c Krause, Bernie. (2012). "The Great Animal Orchestra: Finding the Origins of Music in the World's Wild Places," Little Brown/Hachette, New York.<br><br>^ a b c d e f g Pijanowski, B. C.; Farina, A.; Gage, S. H.; Dumyahn, S. L.; Krause, B. L. (2011). "What is soundscape ecology? An introduction and overview of an emerging new science". Landscape Ecology. 26 (9): 1213. doi:10.1007/s10980-011-9600-8. S2CID 29097340.<br><br>^ a b c Dein, Jacob; Rüdisser, Johannes (2020-07-03). "Landscape influence on biophony in an urban environment in the European Alps". Landscape Ecology. 35 (8): 1875–1889. doi:10.1007/s10980-020-01049-x. ISSN 0921-2973.<br><br>^ Simpson, S. D.; Radford, A. N.; Tickle, E. J.; Meekan, M. G.; Jeffs, A. G. (2011). Klimley, A. Peter (ed.). "Adaptive Avoidance of Reef Noise". PLOS ONE. 6 (2): e16625. Bibcode:2011PLoSO...616625S. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0016625. PMC 3033890. PMID 21326604.<br><br>^ Simpson, S. D.; Meekan, M.; Montgomery, J.; McCauley, R.; Jeffs, A. (2005). "Homeward Sound". Science. 308 (5719): 221. doi:10.1126/science.1107406. PMID 15821083. S2CID 1064954.<br><br>^ Gordon, Timothy A. C.; Radford, Andrew N.; Davidson, Isla K.; Barnes, Kasey; McCloskey, Kieran; Nedelec, Sophie L.; Meekan, Mark G.; McCormick, Mark I.; Simpson, Stephen D. (2019-11-29). "Acoustic enrichment can enhance fish community development on degraded coral reef habitat". Nature Communications. 10 (1): 5414. Bibcode:2019NatCo..10.5414G. doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13186-2. ISSN 2041-1723. PMC 6884498. PMID 31784508.<br><br>^ Grafe, T. U.; Dobler, S.; Linsenmair, K. E. (2002). "Frogs flee from the sound of fire". Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 269 (1495): 999–1003. doi:10.1098/rspb.2002.1974. PMC 1690992. PMID 12028755.<br><br>^ a b c d e Barber, J. R.; Crooks, K. R.; Fristrup, K. M. (2010). "The costs of chronic noise exposure for terrestrial organisms". Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 25 (3): 180–9. doi:10.1016/j.tree.2009.08.002. PMID 19762112.<br><br>^ Wignall, A. E.; Jackson, R. R.; Wilcox, R. S.; Taylor, P. W. (2011). "Exploitation of environmental noise by an araneophagic assassin bug". Animal Behaviour. 82 (5): 1037. doi:10.1016/j.anbehav.2011.07.038. S2CID 53148100.<br><br>^ Krause, Bernie (August, 2015). Voices of the Wild, Yale University Press, New Haven, Connecticut.<br><br>^ "Studying Nature's Rhythms: Soundscape Scientists Spawn New Field". National Science Foundation. Retrieved 7 March 2019.<br><br>^ Dybas, Cheryl. "Soundscape Ecology: Studying Nature's Rhythms". Ecology. Retrieved 7 March 2019.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, remote_sensing/Remote_sensing_Acoustic_and_near_acoustic3.txt
> ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br>		In other projects<br>	<br><br><br>Wikimedia CommonsWikiversity<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 11 April 2024.<br><br><br><br>Acquisition of information at a significant distance from the subject<br>Not to be confused with remote viewing.<br>For other uses, see Remote sensing (disambiguation).<br>This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Remote sensing" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)<br><br><br>Synthetic aperture radar image of Death Valley colored using polarimetry<br>Remote sensing is the acquisition of information about an object or phenomenon without making physical contact with the object, in contrast to in situ or on-site observation. The term is applied especially to acquiring information about Earth and other planets. Remote sensing is used in numerous fields, including geophysics, geography, land surveying and most Earth science disciplines (e.g. exploration geophysics, hydrology, ecology, meteorology, oceanography, glaciology, geology). It also has military, intelligence, commercial, economic, planning, and humanitarian applications, among others.<br>In current usage, the term remote sensing generally refers to the use of satellite- or aircraft-based sensor technologies to detect and classify objects on Earth. It includes the surface and the atmosphere and oceans, based on propagated signals (e.g. electromagnetic radiation). It may be split into "active" remote sensing (when a signal is emitted by a satellite or aircraft to the object and its reflection is detected by the sensor) and "passive" remote sensing (when the reflection of sunlight is detected by the sensor).[1][2][3][4]<br><br><br>Overview[edit]<br>This video is about how Landsat was used to identify areas of conservation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and how it was used to help map an area called MLW in the north.<br>Remote sensing can be divided into two types of methods: Passive remote sensing and Active remote sensing. Passive sensors gather radiation that is emitted or reflected by the object or surrounding areas. Reflected sunlight is the most common source of radiation measured by passive sensors. Examples of passive remote sensors include film photography, infrared, charge-coupled devices, and radiometers. Active collection, on the other hand, emits energy in order to scan objects and areas whereupon a sensor then detects and measures the radiation that is reflected or backscattered from the target. RADAR and LiDAR are examples of active remote sensing where the time delay between emission and return is measured, establishing the location, speed and direction of an object.<br><br>Illustration of remote sensing<br>Remote sensing makes it possible to collect data of dangerous or inaccessible areas. Remote sensing applications include monitoring deforestation in areas such as the Amazon Basin, glacial features in Arctic and Antarctic regions, and depth sounding of coastal and ocean depths. Military collection during the Cold War made use of stand-off collection of data about dangerous border areas. Remote sensing also replaces costly and slow data collection on the ground, ensuring in the process that areas or objects are not disturbed.<br>Orbital platforms collect and transmit data from different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, which in conjunction with larger scale aerial or ground-based sensing and analysis, provides researchers with enough information to monitor trends such as El Niño and other natural long and short term phenomena. Other uses include different areas of the earth sciences such as natural resource management, agricultural fields such as land usage and conservation,[5][6] greenhouse gas monitoring,[7] oil spill detection and monitoring,[8] and national security and overhead, ground-based and stand-off collection on border areas.[9]<br><br>Types of data acquisition techniques[edit]<br>The basis for multispectral collection and analysis is that of examined areas or objects that reflect or emit radiation that stand out from surrounding areas. For a summary of major remote sensing satellite systems see the overview table.<br><br>Applications of remote sensing[edit]<br>Further information: Remote sensing (geology) and Remote sensing in archaeology<br>Radar image of Aswan Dam, Egypt taken by Umbra<br>Conventional radar is mostly associated with aerial traffic control, early warning, and certain large-scale meteorological data. Doppler radar is used by local law enforcements' monitoring of speed limits and in enhanced meteorological collection such as wind speed and direction within weather systems in addition to precipitation location and intensity. Other types of active collection includes plasmas in the ionosphere. Interferometric synthetic aperture radar is used to produce precise digital elevation models of large scale terrain (See RADARSAT, TerraSAR-X, Magellan).<br>Laser and radar altimeters on satellites have provided a wide range of data. By measuring the bulges of water caused by gravity, they map features on the seafloor to a resolution of a mile or so. By measuring the height and wavelength of ocean waves, the altimeters measure wind speeds and direction, and surface ocean currents and directions.<br>Ultrasound (acoustic) and radar tide gauges measure sea level, tides and wave direction in coastal and offshore tide gauges.<br>Light detection and ranging (LIDAR) is well known in examples of weapon ranging, laser illuminated homing of projectiles. LIDAR is used to detect and measure the concentration of various chemicals in the atmosphere, while airborne LIDAR can be used to measure the heights of objects and features on the ground more accurately than with radar technology. Vegetation remote sensing is a principal application of LIDAR.[10]<br>Radiometers and photometers are the most common instrument in use, collecting reflected and emitted radiation in a wide range of frequencies. The most common are visible and infrared sensors, followed by microwave, gamma-ray, and rarely, ultraviolet. They may also be used to detect the emission spectra of various chemicals, providing data on chemical concentrations in the atmosphere.<br>Examples of remote sensing equipment deployed byor interfaced with oceanographic research vessels.[11]<br>Radiometers are also used at night, because artificial light emissions are a key signature of human activity.[12] Applications include remote sensing of population, GDP, and damage to infrastructure from war or disasters.<br>Radiometers and radar onboard of satellites can be used to monitor volcanic eruptions [13][14]<br>Spectropolarimetric Imaging has been reported to be useful for target tracking purposes by researchers at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. They determined that manmade items possess polarimetric signatures that are not found in natural objects. These conclusions were drawn from the imaging of military trucks, like the Humvee, and trailers with their acousto-optic tunable filter dual hyperspectral and spectropolarimetric VNIR Spectropolarimetric Imager.[15][16]<br>Stereographic pairs of aerial photographs have often been used to make topographic maps by imagery and terrain analysts in trafficability and highway departments for potential routes, in addition to modelling terrestrial habitat features.[17][18][19]<br>Simultaneous multi-spectral platforms such as Landsat have been in use since the 1970s. These thematic mappers take images in multiple wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation (multi-spectral) and are usually found on Earth observation satellites, including (for example) the Landsat program or the IKONOS satellite. Maps of land cover and land use from thematic mapping can be used to prospect for minerals, detect or monitor land usage, detect invasive vegetation, deforestation, and examine the health of indigenous plants and crops (satellite crop monitoring), including entire farming regions or forests.[20] Prominent scientists using remote sensing for this purpose include Janet Franklin and Ruth DeFries. Landsat images are used by regulatory agencies such as KYDOW to indicate water quality parameters including Secchi depth, chlorophyll density, and total phosphorus content. Weather satellites are used in meteorology and climatology.<br>Hyperspectral imaging produces an image where each pixel has full spectral information with imaging narrow spectral bands over a contiguous spectral range. Hyperspectral imagers are used in various applications including mineralogy, biology, defence, and environmental measurements.<br>Within the scope of the combat against desertification, remote sensing allows researchers to follow up and monitor risk areas in the long term, to determine desertification factors, to support decision-makers in defining relevant measures of environmental management, and to assess their impacts.[21]<br>Remotely sensed multi- and hyperspectral images can be used for assessing biodiversity at different scales. Since the spectral properties of different plants species are unique, it is possible to get information about properties that relates to biodiversity such as habitat heterogeneity, spectral diversity and plant functional trait.[22][23][24]<br>Remote sensing has been used to detect rare plants to aid in conservation efforts. Prediction, detection, and the ability to record biophysical conditions were possible from medium to very high resolutions.[25]<br>Agricultural and environmental statistics, usually combining classified satellite images with ground truth data collected on a sample selected on an area sampling frame[26]<br>Geodetic[edit]<br>Further information: Satellite geodesy<br>Geodetic remote sensing can be gravimetric or geometric. Overhead gravity data collection was first used in aerial submarine detection. This data revealed minute perturbations in the Earth's gravitational field that may be used to determine changes in the mass distribution of the Earth, which in turn may be used for geophysical studies, as in GRACE. Geometric remote sensing includes position and deformation imaging using InSAR, LIDAR, etc.[27]<br>Acoustic and near-acoustic[edit]<br>Sonar: passive sonar, listening for the sound made by another object (a vessel, a whale etc.); active sonar, emitting pulses of sounds and listening for echoes, used for detecting, ranging and measurements of underwater objects and terrain.<br>Seismograms taken at different locations can locate and measure earthquakes (after they occur) by comparing the relative intensity and precise timings.<br>Ultrasound: Ultrasound sensors, that emit high-frequency pulses and listening for echoes, used for detecting water waves and water level, as in tide gauges or for towing tanks.<br>To coordinate a series of large-scale observations, most sensing systems depend on the following: platform location and the orientation of the sensor. High-end instruments now often use positional information from satellite navigation systems. The rotation and orientation are often provided within a degree or two with electronic compasses. Compasses can measure not just azimuth (i. e. degrees to magnetic north), but also altitude (degrees above the horizon), since the magnetic field curves into the Earth at different angles at different latitudes. More exact orientations require gyroscopic-aided orientation, periodically realigned by different methods including navigation from stars or known benchmarks.<br><br>Data characteristics[edit]<br>The quality of remote sensing data consists of its spatial, spectral, radiometric and temporal resolutions.<br><br>Spatial resolution<br>The size of a pixel that is recorded in a raster image – typically pixels may correspond to square areas ranging in side length from 1 to 1,000 metres (3.3 to 3,280.8 ft).<br>Spectral resolution<br>The wavelength of the different frequency bands recorded – usually, this is related to the number of frequency bands recorded by the platform. Current Landsat collection is that of seven bands, including several in the infrared spectrum, ranging from a spectral resolution of 0.7 to 2.1 μm. The Hyperion sensor on Earth Observing-1 resolves 220 bands from 0.4 to 2.5 μm, with a spectral resolution of 0.10 to 0.11 μm per band.<br>Radiometric resolution<br>The number of different intensities of radiation the sensor is able to distinguish. Typically, this ranges from 8 to 14 bits, corresponding to 256 levels of the gray scale and up to 16,384 intensities or "shades" of colour, in each band. It also depends on the instrument noise.<br>Temporal resolution<br>The frequency of flyovers by the satellite or plane, and is only relevant in time-series studies or those requiring an averaged or mosaic image as in deforesting monitoring. This was first used by the intelligence community where repeated coverage revealed changes in infrastructure, the deployment of units or the modification/introduction of equipment. Cloud cover over a given area or object makes it necessary to repeat the collection of said location.<br>Data processing[edit]<br>In order to create sensor-based maps, most remote sensing systems expect to extrapolate sensor data in relation to a reference point including distances between known points on the ground. This depends on the type of sensor used. For example, in conventional photographs, distances are accurate in the center of the image, with the distortion of measurements increasing the farther you get from the center. Another factor is that of the platen against which the film is pressed can cause severe errors when photographs are used to measure ground distances. The step in which this problem is resolved is called georeferencing and involves computer-aided matching of points in the image (typically 30 or more points per image) which is extrapolated with the use of an established benchmark, "warping" the image to produce accurate spatial data. As of the early 1990s, most satellite images are sold fully georeferenced.<br>In addition, images may need to be radiometrically and atmospherically corrected.<br><br>Radiometric correction<br>Allows avoidance of radiometric errors and distortions. The illumination of objects on the Earth's surface is uneven because of different properties of the relief. This factor is taken into account in the method of radiometric distortion correction.[28] Radiometric correction gives a scale to the pixel values, e. g. the monochromatic scale of 0 to 255 will be converted to actual radiance values.<br>Topographic correction (also called terrain correction)<br>In rugged mountains, as a result of terrain, the effective illumination of pixels varies considerably. In a remote sensing image, the pixel on the shady slope receives weak illumination and has a low radiance value, in contrast, the pixel on the sunny slope receives strong illumination and has a high radiance value. For the same object, the pixel radiance value on the shady slope will be different from that on the sunny slope. Additionally, different objects may have similar radiance values. These ambiguities seriously affected remote sensing image information extraction accuracy in mountainous areas. It became the main obstacle to the further application of remote sensing images. The purpose of topographic correction is to eliminate this effect, recovering the true reflectivity or radiance of objects in horizontal conditions. It is the premise of quantitative remote sensing application.<br>Atmospheric correction<br>Elimination of atmospheric haze by rescaling each frequency band so that its minimum value (usually realised in water bodies) corresponds to a pixel value of 0. The digitizing of data also makes it possible to manipulate the data by changing gray-scale values.<br>Interpretation is the critical process of making sense of the data. The first application was that of aerial photographic collection which used the following process; spatial measurement through the use of a light table in both conventional single or stereographic coverage, added skills such as the use of photogrammetry, the use of photomosaics, repeat coverage, Making use of objects' known dimensions in order to detect modifications. Image Analysis is the recently developed automated computer-aided application that is in increasing use.<br>Object-Based Image Analysis (OBIA) is a sub-discipline of GIScience devoted to partitioning remote sensing (RS) imagery into meaningful image-objects, and assessing their characteristics through spatial, spectral and temporal scale.<br>Old data from remote sensing is often valuable because it may provide the only long-term data for a large extent of geography. At the same time, the data is often complex to interpret, and bulky to store. Modern systems tend to store the data digitally, often with lossless compression. The difficulty with this approach is that the data is fragile, the format may be archaic, and the data may be easy to falsify. One of the best systems for archiving data series is as computer-generated machine-readable ultrafiche, usually in typefonts such as OCR-B, or as digitized half-tone images. Ultrafiches survive well in standard libraries, with lifetimes of several centuries. They can be created, copied, filed and retrieved by automated systems. They are about as compact as archival magnetic media, and yet can be read by human beings with minimal, standardized equipment.

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, remote_sensing/Remote_sensing_Acoustic_and_near_acoustic4.txt
> Generally speaking, remote sensing works on the principle of the inverse problem: while the object or phenomenon of interest (the state) may not be directly measured, there exists some other variable that can be detected and measured (the observation) which may be related to the object of interest through a calculation. The common analogy given to describe this is trying to determine the type of animal from its footprints. For example, while it is impossible to directly measure temperatures in the upper atmosphere, it is possible to measure the spectral emissions from a known chemical species (such as carbon dioxide) in that region. The frequency of the emissions may then be related via thermodynamics to the temperature in that region.<br><br>Data processing levels[edit]<br>To facilitate the discussion of data processing in practice, several processing "levels" were first defined in 1986 by NASA as part of its Earth Observing System[29] and steadily adopted since then, both internally at NASA (e. g.,[30]) and elsewhere (e. g.,[31]); these definitions are:<br><br><br><br>Level<br><br>Description<br><br><br>0<br><br>Reconstructed, unprocessed instrument and payload data at full resolution, with any and all communications artifacts (e. g., synchronization frames, communications headers, duplicate data) removed.<br><br><br>1a<br><br>Reconstructed, unprocessed instrument data at full resolution, time-referenced, and annotated with ancillary information, including radiometric and geometric calibration coefficients and georeferencing parameters (e. g., platform ephemeris) computed and appended but not applied to the Level 0 data (or if applied, in a manner that level 0 is fully recoverable from level 1a data).<br><br><br>1b<br><br>Level 1a data that have been processed to sensor units (e. g., radar backscatter cross section, brightness temperature, etc.); not all instruments have Level 1b data; level 0 data is not recoverable from level 1b data.<br><br><br>2<br><br>Derived geophysical variables (e. g., ocean wave height, soil moisture, ice concentration) at the same resolution and location as Level 1 source data.<br><br><br>3<br><br>Variables mapped on uniform spacetime grid scales, usually with some completeness and consistency (e. g., missing points interpolated, complete regions mosaicked together from multiple orbits, etc.).<br><br><br>4<br><br>Model output or results from analyses of lower level data (i. e., variables that were not measured by the instruments but instead are derived from these measurements).<br><br>A Level 1 data record is the most fundamental (i. e., highest reversible level) data record that has significant scientific utility, and is the foundation upon which all subsequent data sets are produced. Level 2 is the first level that is directly usable for<br>most scientific applications; its value is much greater than the lower levels. Level 2 data sets tend to be less voluminous than Level 1 data because they have been reduced temporally, spatially, or spectrally. Level 3 data sets are generally smaller than lower level data sets and thus can be dealt with without incurring a great deal of data handling overhead. These data tend to be generally more useful for many applications. The regular spatial and temporal organization of Level 3 datasets makes it feasible to readily combine data from different sources.<br>While these processing levels are particularly suitable for typical satellite data processing pipelines, other data level vocabularies have been defined and may be appropriate for more heterogeneous workflows.<br><br>Applications[edit]<br>Satellite images provide very useful information to produce statistics on topics closely related to the territory, such as agriculture, forestry or land cover in general. The first large project to apply Landsata 1 images for statistics was LACIE (Large Area Crop Inventory Experiment), run by NASA, NOAA and the USDA in 1974–77.[32][33] Many other application projects on crop area estimation have followed, including the Italian AGRIT project and the MARS project of the Joint Research Centre (JRC) of the European Commission.[34] Forest area and deforestation estimation have also been a frequent target of remote sensing projects,[35][36] the same as land cover and land use[37]<br>Groud truth or reference data to train and validate image classification require a field survey if we are targetting annual crops or individual forest species, but may be substituted by photointerpretation if we look at wider classes that can be reliably identified on aerial photos or satellite images. It is relevant to highlight that probabilistic sampling is not critical for the selection of training pixels for image classification, but it is necessary for accuracy assessment of the classified images and area estimation.[38][39][40] Additional care is recommended to ensure that training and validation datasets are not spatially correlated.[41]<br>We suppose now that we have classified images or a land cover map produced by visual photo-interpretation, with a legend of mapped classes that suits our purpose, taking again the example of wheat. The straightforward approach is counting the number of pixels classified as wheat and multiplying by the area of each pixel. Many authors have noticed that estimator is that it is generally biased because commission and omission errors in a confusion matrix do not compensate each other [42][43][44]<br>The main strength of classified satellite images or other indicators computed on satellite images is providing cheap information on the whole target area or most of it. This information usually has a good correlation with the target variable (ground truth) that is usually expensive to observe in an unbiased and accurate way. Therefore it can be observed on a probabilistic sample selected on an area sampling frame. Traditional survey methodology provides different methods to combine accurate information on a sample with less accurate, but exhaustive, data for a covariable or proxy that is cheaper to collect.  For agricultural statistics, field surveys are usually required, while photo-interpretation may better for land cover classes that can be reliably identified on aerial photographs or high resolution satellite images. Additional uncertainty can appear because of imperfect reference data (ground truth or similar).[45][46]<br>Some options are: ratio estimator, regression estimator,[47] calibration estimators[48] and small area estimators[37]<br>If we target other variables, such as crop yield or leaf area, we may need different indicators to be computed from images, such as the NDVI, a good proxy to chlorophyll activity.[49]<br><br>History[edit]<br>The TR-1 reconnaissance/surveillance aircraft<br>The 2001 Mars Odyssey used spectrometers and imagers to hunt for evidence of past or present water and volcanic activity on Mars.<br>The modern discipline of remote sensing arose with the development of flight. The balloonist G. Tournachon (alias Nadar) made photographs of Paris from his balloon in 1858.[50] Messenger pigeons, kites, rockets and unmanned balloons were also used for early images. With the exception of balloons, these first, individual images were not particularly useful for map making or for scientific purposes.<br>Systematic aerial photography was developed for military surveillance and reconnaissance purposes beginning in World War I.[51] After WWI, remote sensing technology was quickly adapted to civilian applications.[52] This is demonstrated by the first line of a 1941 textbook titled "Aerophotography and Aerosurverying," which stated the following: <br><br>"There is no longer any need to preach for aerial photography-not in the United States- for so widespread has become its use and so great its value that even the farmer who plants his fields in a remote corner of the country knows its value."— James Bagley, [52]<br>The development of remote sensing technology reached a climax during the Cold War with the use of modified combat aircraft such as the P-51, P-38, RB-66 and the F-4C, or specifically designed collection platforms such as the U2/TR-1, SR-71, A-5 and the OV-1 series both in overhead and stand-off collection.[53] A more recent development is that of increasingly smaller sensor pods such as those used by law enforcement and the military, in both manned and unmanned platforms. The advantage of this approach is that this requires minimal modification to a given airframe. Later imaging technologies would include infrared, conventional, Doppler and synthetic aperture radar.[54]<br>The development of artificial satellites in the latter half of the 20th century allowed remote sensing to progress to a global scale as of the end of the Cold War.[55] Instrumentation aboard various Earth observing and weather satellites such as Landsat, the Nimbus and more recent missions such as RADARSAT and UARS provided global measurements of various data for civil, research, and military purposes. Space probes to other planets have also provided the opportunity to conduct remote sensing studies in extraterrestrial environments, synthetic aperture radar aboard the Magellan spacecraft provided detailed topographic maps of Venus, while instruments aboard SOHO allowed studies to be performed on the Sun and the solar wind, just to name a few examples.[56][57]<br>Recent developments include, beginning in the 1960s and 1970s, the development of image processing of satellite imagery. The use of the term "remote sensing" began in the early 1960s when Evelyn Pruitt realized that advances in science meant that aerial photography was no longer an adequate term to describe the data streams being generated by new technologies.[58][59] With assistance from her fellow staff member at the Office of Naval Research, Walter Bailey, she coined the term "remote sensing".[60][61] Several research groups in Silicon Valley including NASA Ames Research Center, GTE, and ESL Inc. developed Fourier transform techniques leading to the first notable enhancement of imagery data. In 1999 the first commercial satellite (IKONOS) collecting very high resolution imagery was launched.[62]<br><br>Training and education[edit]<br>Remote Sensing has a growing relevance in the modern information society. It represents a key technology as part of the aerospace industry and bears increasing economic relevance – new sensors e.g. TerraSAR-X and RapidEye are developed constantly and the demand for skilled labour is increasing steadily. Furthermore, remote sensing exceedingly influences everyday life, ranging from weather forecasts to reports on climate change or natural disasters. As an example, 80% of the German students use the services of Google Earth; in 2006 alone the software was downloaded 100 million times. But studies have shown that only a fraction of them know more about the data they are working with.[63] There exists a huge knowledge gap between the application and the understanding of satellite images.<br>Remote sensing only plays a tangential role in schools, regardless of the political claims to strengthen the support for teaching on the subject.[64] A lot of the computer software explicitly developed for school lessons has not yet been implemented due to its complexity. Thereby, the subject is either not at all integrated into the curriculum or does not pass the step of an interpretation of analogue images. In fact, the subject of remote sensing requires a consolidation of physics and mathematics as well as competences in the fields of media and methods apart from the mere visual interpretation of satellite images.<br>Many teachers have great interest in the subject "remote sensing", being motivated to integrate this topic into teaching, provided that the curriculum is considered. In many cases, this encouragement fails because of confusing information.[65] In order to integrate remote sensing in a sustainable manner organizations like the EGU or Digital Earth[66] encourage the development of learning modules and learning portals. Examples include: FIS – Remote Sensing in School Lessons,[67] Geospektiv,[68] Ychange,[69] or Spatial Discovery,[70] to promote media and method qualifications as well as independent learning.<br><br>Software[edit]<br>Main article: Remote sensing software<br>Remote sensing data are processed and analyzed with computer software, known as a remote sensing application. A large number of proprietary and open source applications exist to process remote sensing data.<br><br>Remote Sensing with gamma rays[edit]<br>There are applications of gamma rays to mineral exploration through remote sensing. In 1972 more than two million dollars were spent on remote sensing applications with gamma rays to mineral exploration. Gamma rays are used to search for deposits of uranium. By observing radioactivity from potassium, porphyry copper deposits can be located. A high ratio of uranium to thorium has been found to be related to the presence of hydrothermal copper deposits. Radiation patterns have also been known to occur above oil and gas fields, but some of these patterns were thought to be due to surface soils instead of oil and gas.[71]<br><br>Satellites[edit]<br>This section is an excerpt from Earth observation satellite.[edit]<br>Six Earth observation satellites comprising the A-train satellite constellation as of 2014.<br>An Earth observation satellite or Earth remote sensing satellite is a satellite used or designed for Earth observation (EO) from orbit, including spy satellites and similar ones intended for non-military uses such as environmental monitoring, meteorology, cartography and others. The most common type are Earth imaging satellites, that take satellite images, analogous to aerial photographs; some EO satellites may perform remote sensing without forming pictures, such as in GNSS radio occultation.<br>The first occurrence of satellite remote sensing can be dated to the launch of the first artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, by the Soviet Union on October 4, 1957.[72] Sputnik 1 sent back radio signals, which scientists used to study the ionosphere.[73]<br>The United States Army Ballistic Missile Agency launched the first American satellite, Explorer 1, for NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory on January 31, 1958. The information sent back from its radiation detector led to the discovery of the Earth's Van Allen radiation belts.[74] The TIROS-1 spacecraft, launched on April 1, 1960, as part of NASA's Television Infrared Observation Satellite (TIROS) program, sent back the first television footage of weather patterns to be taken from space.[72]<br>In 2008, more than 150 Earth observation satellites were in orbit, recording data with both passive and active sensors and acquiring more than 10 terabits of data daily.[72] By 2021, that total had grown to over 950, with the largest number of satellites operated by US-based company Planet Labs.[75]<br>Most Earth observation satellites carry instruments that should be operated at a relatively low altitude. Most orbit at altitudes above 500 to 600 kilometers (310 to 370 mi). Lower orbits have significant air-drag, which makes frequent orbit reboost maneuvers necessary. The Earth observation satellites ERS-1, ERS-2 and Envisat of European Space Agency as well as the MetOp spacecraft of EUMETSAT are all operated at altitudes of about 800 km (500 mi). The Proba-1, Proba-2 and SMOS spacecraft of European Space Agency are observing the Earth from an altitude of about 700 km (430 mi). The Earth observation satellites of UAE, DubaiSat-1 & DubaiSat-2 are also placed in Low Earth Orbits (LEO) orbits and providing satellite imagery of various parts of the Earth.[76][77]<br>To get global coverage with a low orbit, a polar orbit is used. A low orbit will have an orbital period of roughly 100 minutes and the Earth will rotate around its polar axis about 25° between successive orbits. The ground track moves towards the west 25° each orbit, allowing a different section of the globe to be scanned with each orbit. Most are in Sun-synchronous orbits.<br><br>A geostationary orbit, at 36,000 km (22,000 mi), allows a satellite to hover over a constant spot on the earth since the orbital period at this altitude is 24 hours. This allows uninterrupted coverage of more than 1/3 of the Earth per satellite, so three satellites, spaced 120° apart, can cover the whole Earth. This type of orbit is mainly used for meteorological satellites.<br>See also[edit]<br>Main category: Remote sensing<br><br>Airborne Real-time Cueing Hyperspectral Enhanced Reconnaissance<br>American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing<br>Archaeological imagery<br>Asian Association on Remote Sensing<br>CLidar<br>Coastal management<br>Crateology<br>First images of Earth from space<br>Full spectral imaging<br>Geographic information system (GIS)<br>GIS and hydrology<br>Geoinformatics<br>Geophysical survey<br>Global Positioning System (GPS)<br>Ground truth § Remote sensing<br>IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society<br>Image mosaic<br>Imagery analysis<br>Imaging science<br>International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing<br>Land change science<br>Liquid crystal tunable filter<br>List of Earth observation satellites<br>Mobile mapping<br>Multispectral pattern recognition<br>National Center for Remote Sensing, Air and Space Law<br>National LIDAR Dataset<br>Normalized difference water index<br>Orthophoto<br>Pictometry<br>Radiometry<br>Remote monitoring and control<br>Technical geography<br>TopoFlight<br>Vector Map<br><br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Schowengerdt, Robert A. (2007). Remote sensing: models and methods for image processing (3rd ed.). Academic Press. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-12-369407-2. Archived from the original on 1 May 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.<br><br>^ Schott, John Robert (2007). Remote sensing: the image chain approach (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-19-517817-3. Archived from the original on 24 April 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2015.<br><br>^ Guo, Huadong; Huang, Qingni; Li, Xinwu; Sun, Zhongchang; Zhang, Ying (2013). "Spatiotemporal analysis of urban environment based on the vegetation–impervious surface–soil model" (PDF). Journal of Applied Remote Sensing. 8: 084597. Bibcode:2014JARS....8.4597G. doi:10.1117/1.JRS.8.084597. S2CID 28430037. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 July 2018. Retrieved 27 October 2021.<br><br>^ Liu, Jian Guo & Mason, Philippa J. (2009). Essential Image Processing for GIS and Remote Sensing. Wiley-Blackwell. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-470-51032-2. Retrieved 2 April 2023.<br><br>^ "Saving the monkeys". SPIE Professional. Archived from the original on 4 February 2016. Retrieved 1 January 2016.<br><br>^ Howard, A.; et al. (19 August 2015). "Remote sensing and habitat mapping for bearded capuchin monkeys (Sapajus libidinosus): landscapes for the use of stone tools". Journal of Applied Remote Sensing. 9 (1): 096020. doi:10.1117/1.JRS.9.096020. S2CID 120031016.<br><br>^ Innocenti, Fabrizio; Robinson, Rod; Gardiner, Tom; Finlayson, Andrew; Connor, Andy (2017). "Differential Absorption Lidar (DIAL) Measurements of Landfill Methane Emissions". Remote Sensing. 9 (9): 953. Bibcode:2017RemS....9..953I. doi:10.3390/rs9090953.<br><br>^ C. Bayindir; J. D. Frost; C. F. Barnes (January 2018). "Assessment and enhancement of SAR noncoherent change detection of sea-surface oil spills". IEEE J. Ocean. Eng. 43 (1): 211–220. Bibcode:2018IJOE...43..211B. doi:10.1109/JOE.2017.2714818. S2CID 44706251.<br><br>^ "Science@nasa - Technology: Remote Sensing". Archived from the original on 29 September 2006. Retrieved 18 February 2009.<br><br>^ Zhao, Kaiguang; Suarez, Juan C; Garcia, Mariano; Hu, Tongxi; Wang, Cheng; Londo, Alexis (2018). "Utility of multitemporal lidar for forest and carbon monitoring: Tree growth, biomass dynamics, and carbon flux". Remote Sensing of Environment. 204: 883–897. Bibcode:2018RSEnv.204..883Z. doi:10.1016/j.rse.2017.09.007.<br><br>^ Just Sit Right Back and You'll Hear a Tale, a Tale of a Plankton Trip Archived 10 August 2021 at the Wayback Machine NASA Earth Expeditions, 15 August 2018.<br><br>^ Levin, Noam; Kyba, Christopher C.M.; Zhang, Qingling; Sánchez de Miguel, Alejandro; Román, Miguel O.; Li, Xi; Portnov, Boris A.; Molthan, Andrew L.; Jechow, Andreas; Miller, Steven D.; Wang, Zhuosen; Shrestha, Ranjay M.; Elvidge, Christopher D. (February 2020). "Remote sensing of night lights: A review and an outlook for the future". Remote Sensing of Environment. 237: 111443. Bibcode:2020RSEnv.23711443L. doi:10.1016/j.rse.2019.111443. hdl:10871/40052. S2CID 214254543.<br><br>^ Corradino, Claudia; Ganci, Gaetana; Bilotta, Giuseppe; Cappello, Annalisa; Del Negro, Ciro; Fortuna, Luigi (January 2019). "Smart Decision Support Systems for Volcanic Applications". Energies. 12 (7): 1216. doi:10.3390/en12071216.<br><br>^ Corradino, Claudia; Ganci, Gaetana; Cappello, Annalisa; Bilotta, Giuseppe; Hérault, Alexis; Del Negro, Ciro (January 2019). "Mapping Recent Lava Flows at Mount Etna Using Multispectral Sentinel-2 Images and Machine Learning Techniques". Remote Sensing. 11 (16): 1916. Bibcode:2019RemS...11.1916C. doi:10.3390/rs11161916.<br><br>^ Goldberg, A.; Stann, B.; Gupta, N. (July 2003). "Multispectral, Hyperspectral, and Three-Dimensional Imaging Research at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory" (PDF). Proceedings of the International Conference on International Fusion [6th]. 1: 499–506.<br><br>^ Makki, Ihab; Younes, Rafic; Francis, Clovis; Bianchi, Tiziano; Zucchetti, Massimo (1 February 2017). "A survey of landmine detection using hyperspectral imaging". ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing. 124: 40–53. Bibcode:2017JPRS..124...40M. doi:10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2016.12.009. ISSN 0924-2716.<br><br>^ Mills, J.P.; et al. (1997). "Photogrammetry from Archived Digital Imagery for Seal Monitoring". The Photogrammetric Record. 15 (89): 715–724. doi:10.1111/0031-868X.00080. S2CID 140189982.<br><br>^ Twiss, S.D.; et al. (2001). "Topographic spatial characterisation of grey seal Halichoerus grypus breeding habitat at a sub-seal size spatial grain". Ecography. 24 (3): 257–266. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0587.2001.tb00198.x.<br><br>^ Stewart, J.E.; et al. (2014). "Finescale ecological niche modeling provides evidence that lactating gray seals (Halichoerus grypus) prefer access to fresh water in order to drink" (PDF). Marine Mammal Science. 30 (4): 1456–1472. Bibcode:2014MMamS..30.1456S. doi:10.1111/mms.12126. Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 July 2021. Retrieved 27 October 2021.<br><br>^ Zhang, Chuanrong; Li, Xinba (September 2022). "Land Use and Land Cover Mapping in the Era of Big Data". Land. 11 (10): 1692. doi:10.3390/land11101692.<br><br>^ "Begni G. Escadafal R. Fontannaz D. and Hong-Nga Nguyen A.-T. (2005). Remote sensing: a tool to monitor and assess desertification. Les dossiers thématiques du CSFD. Issue 2. 44 pp". Archived from the original on 26 May 2019. Retrieved 27 October 2021.<br><br>^ Wang, Ran; Gamon, John A. (15 September 2019). "Remote sensing of terrestrial plant biodiversity". Remote Sensing of Environment. 231: 111218. Bibcode:2019RSEnv.23111218W. doi:10.1016/j.rse.2019.111218. ISSN 0034-4257. S2CID 197567301.<br><br>^ Rocchini, Duccio; Boyd, Doreen S.; Féret, Jean-Baptiste; Foody, Giles M.; He, Kate S.; Lausch, Angela; Nagendra, Harini; Wegmann, Martin; Pettorelli, Nathalie (February 2016). Skidmore, Andrew; Chauvenet, Alienor (eds.). "Satellite remote sensing to monitor species diversity: potential and pitfalls". Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation. 2 (1): 25–36. Bibcode:2016RSEC....2...25R. doi:10.1002/rse2.9. hdl:11585/720672. ISSN 2056-3485. S2CID 59446258.<br><br>^ Schweiger, Anna K.; Cavender-Bares, Jeannine; Townsend, Philip A.; Hobbie, Sarah E.; Madritch, Michael D.; Wang, Ran; Tilman, David; Gamon, John A. (June 2018). "Plant spectral diversity integrates functional and phylogenetic components of biodiversity and predicts ecosystem function". Nature Ecology & Evolution. 2 (6): 976–982. Bibcode:2018NatEE...2..976S. doi:10.1038/s41559-018-0551-1. ISSN 2397-334X. PMID 29760440. S2CID 256718584.<br><br>^ Cerrejón, Carlos; Valeria, Osvaldo; Marchand, Philippe; Caners, Richard T.; Fenton, Nicole J. (18 February 2021). "No place to hide: Rare plant detection through remote sensing". Diversity and Distributions. 27 (6): 948–961. Bibcode:2021DivDi..27..948C. doi:10.1111/ddi.13244. ISSN 1366-9516. S2CID 233886263.<br><br>^ Carfagna, E. (2005). "Using remote sensing for agricultural statistics". International Statistical Review. 73 (3): 389–404. doi:10.1111/j.1751-5823.2005.tb00155.x.<br><br>^ "Geodetic Imaging". Archived from the original on 2 October 2016. Retrieved 29 September 2016.<br><br>^ Grigoriev А.N. (2015). "Мethod of radiometric distortion correction of multispectral data for the earth remote sensing". Scientific and Technical Journal of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics. 15 (4): 595–602. doi:10.17586/2226-1494-2015-15-4-595-602.<br><br>^ NASA (1986), Report of the EOS data panel, Earth Observing System, Data and Information System, Data Panel Report, Vol. IIa., NASA Technical Memorandum 87777, June 1986, 62 pp. Available at http://hdl.handle.net/2060/19860021622 Archived 27 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine<br><br>^ C. L. Parkinson, A. Ward, M. D. King (Eds.) Earth Science Reference Handbook – A Guide to NASA's Earth Science Program and Earth Observing Satellite Missions, National Aeronautics and Space Administration Washington, D. C. Available at http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftp_docs/2006ReferenceHandbook.pdf Archived 15 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine<br><br>^ GRAS-SAF (2009), Product User Manual, GRAS Satellite Application Facility, Version 1.2.1, 31 March 2009. Available at http://www.grassaf.org/general-documents/products/grassaf_pum_v121.pdf Archived 26 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine<br><br>^ Houston, A.H. "Use of satellite data in agricultural surveys". Communications in Statistics. Theory and Methods (23): 2857–2880.<br><br>^ Allen, J.D. "A Look at the Remote Sensing Applications Program of the National Agricultural Statistics Service". Journal of Official Statistics. 6 (4): 393–409.
