# Query `93`

## Original Question

*What Magnitude does it Feel Like when Far Away in an Earthquake?
I can't find a good way to say this but, if I had some info about an earthquake (i.e. magnitude 8, originating in water) and if I had a distance (i.e. 850 miles/ 1370 km) could I calculate what it would be if that specific location was the epicenter? So, maybe it would be like a 3 or 4 maybe?I'm looking for a formula or calculator. If it is not possible, please tell me! It is fine if it is rough.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.6667
recall_25: 0.6667
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3152
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3152
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4060
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4060
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1389
map_cut_25: 0.1389
map_cut_50: 0.1675
map_cut_100: 0.1675
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) using_accelerometer_as_a_seismograph/Richter_scale2.txt
> part2 -------------------<br>Richter magnitudes[edit]<br><br>The Richter magnitude of an earthquake is determined from the logarithm of the amplitude of waves recorded by seismographs. Adjustments are included to compensate for the variation in the distance between the various seismographs and the epicenter of the earthquake. The original formula is:<br>M<br><br><br>L<br><br><br><br>=<br><br>log<br><br>10<br><br><br>⁡<br>A<br>−<br><br>log<br><br>10<br><br><br>⁡<br><br>A<br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br>(<br>δ<br>)<br>=<br><br>log<br><br>10<br><br><br>⁡<br>[<br>A<br><br>/<br><br><br>A<br><br><br>0<br><br><br><br>(<br>δ<br>)<br>]<br>,<br> <br><br><br>{\displaystyle M_{\mathrm {L} }=\log _{10}A-\log _{10}A_{\mathrm {0} }(\delta )=\log _{10}[A/A_{\mathrm {0} }(\delta )],\ }<br>where A is the maximum excursion of the Wood-Anderson seismograph, the empirical function A0 depends only on the epicentral distance of the station, <br><br><br><br>δ<br><br><br>{\displaystyle \delta }<br><br>. In practice, readings from all observing stations are averaged after adjustment with station-specific corrections to obtain the ML  value.<br>Because of the logarithmic basis of the scale, each whole number increase in magnitude represents a tenfold increase in measured amplitude.  In terms of energy, each whole number increase corresponds to an increase of about 31.6 times the amount of energy released, and each increase of 0.2 corresponds to approximately a doubling of the energy released.<br>Events with magnitudes greater than 4.5 are strong enough to be recorded by a seismograph anywhere in the world, so long as its sensors are not located in the earthquake's shadow.<br>The following describes the typical effects of earthquakes of various magnitudes near the epicenter. The values are typical and may not be exact in a future event because intensity and ground effects depend not only on the magnitude but also on (1) the distance to the epicenter, (2) the depth of the earthquake's focus beneath the epicenter, (3) the location of the epicenter, and (4) geological conditions.<br>Magnitude<br><br>Description<br><br>Typical maximum Modified Mercalli Intensity<br><br>Average earthquake effects<br><br>Average frequency of occurrence globally (estimated)<br><br><br>1.0–1.9<br><br>Micro<br><br>I<br><br>Microearthquakes, not felt. Recorded by seismographs.<br><br>Continual/several million per year<br><br><br>2.0–2.9<br><br>Minor<br><br>I<br><br>Felt slightly by some people. No damage to buildings.<br><br>Over one million per year<br><br><br>3.0–3.9<br><br>Slight<br><br>II to III<br><br>Often felt by people, but very rarely causes damage. Shaking of indoor objects can be noticeable.<br><br>Over 100,000 per year<br><br><br>4.0–4.9<br><br>Light<br><br>IV to V<br><br>Noticeable shaking of indoor objects and rattling noises. Felt by most people in the affected area. Slightly felt outside. Generally causes zero to minimal damage. Moderate to significant damage is very unlikely. Some objects may fall off shelves or be knocked over.<br><br>10,000 to 15,000 per year<br><br><br>5.0–5.9<br><br>Moderate<br><br>VI to VII<br><br>Can cause damage of varying severity to poorly constructed buildings. Zero to slight damage to all other buildings. Felt by everyone.<br><br>1,000 to 1,500 per year<br><br><br>6.0–6.9<br><br>Strong<br><br>VII to IX<br><br>Damage to a moderate number of well-built structures in populated areas. Earthquake-resistant structures survive with slight to moderate damage. Poorly designed structures receive moderate to severe damage. Felt in wider areas; up to hundreds of kilometers from the epicenter. Strong to violent shaking in the epicentral area.<br><br>100 to 150 per year<br><br><br>7.0–7.9<br><br>Major<br><br>VIII or higher<br><br>Causes damage to most buildings, some to partially or completely collapse or receive severe damage. Well-designed structures are likely to receive damage. Felt across great distances with major damage mostly limited to 250 km from the epicenter.<br><br>10 to 20 per year<br><br><br>8.0–8.9<br><br>Great<br><br>Major damage to buildings, and structures likely to be destroyed. Will cause moderate to heavy damage to sturdy or earthquake-resistant buildings. Damaging in large areas. Felt in extremely large regions.<br><br>One per year<br><br><br>9.0–9.9<br><br>Extreme<br><br>Near total destruction – severe damage or collapse to all buildings. Heavy damage and shaking extend to distant locations. Permanent changes in ground topography.<br><br>One to three per century<br>(Based on U.S. Geological Survey documents.)<br>The intensity and death toll depend on several factors (earthquake depth, epicenter location, and population density, to name a few) and can vary widely.<br>Millions of minor earthquakes occur every year worldwide, equating to hundreds every hour every day. On the other hand, earthquakes of magnitude ≥8.0 occur about once a year, on average. The largest recorded earthquake was the Great Chilean earthquake of May 22, 1960, which had a magnitude of 9.5 on the moment magnitude scale.<br>Seismologist Susan Hough has suggested that a magnitude 10 quake may represent a very approximate upper limit for what the Earth's tectonic zones are capable of, which would be the result of the largest known continuous belt of faults rupturing together (along the Pacific coast of the Americas). A research at the Tohoku University in Japan found that a magnitude 10 earthquake was theoretically possible if a combined 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi) of faults from the Japan Trench to the Kuril–Kamchatka Trench ruptured together and moved by 60 metres (200 ft) (or if a similar large-scale rupture occurred elsewhere). Such an earthquake would cause ground motions for up to an hour, with tsunamis hitting shores while the ground is still shaking, and if this kind of earthquake occurred, it would probably be a 1-in-10,000-year event.

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) propagation_of_sound_after_lightning/what_causes_thunder_htm4.txt
> I live in the Old Capital of Fiji which is Levuka. There was a thunderstorm that struck levuka that I have come across in my life and was really scary. As we celebrate easter on Friday the weather was cloudy and you can't see any sky and I was telling my husband, see even everything around us respects that today we are remembering the death of our saviour and every living things respect. And on sunday the resurrection of Jesus. Everything is like what the bible says but not that strong. This the first time for me to see and experience a thunderstorm, because most of the time we experience hurricanes. I was really scared and started reading the bible and everything was like the end of the world. Makes me search for things that can be done in this kind of situation.This thunder is like an earthquake again. It was so close and I see people running around and enjoying the weather.    <br><br><br>            anon71373        <br><br>            March 18, 2010        <br>No such thing as heat lightning. Sound does not travel as far as light. A far away lightning storm will create what people call heat lightning (could be 50 miles away). Common misconception. You see lightning flashes but you don't hear thunder. Happens all the time. Usually happens during clear nights where the light can travel far, and the distant thunderstorm cloud cannot be seen.      <br><br><br>            anon68668        <br><br>            March 3, 2010        <br>just five minutes ago in my town, there were small chunks of hail falling. then afterward, there was thunder.    <br><br><br>            anon64881        <br><br>            February 10, 2010        <br>we have thunder rain and lighting right now.    <br><br><br>            anon64679        <br><br>            February 8, 2010        <br>why does lighting hit the trees on so many occasions?    <br><br><br>            anon56927        <br><br>            December 18, 2009        <br>we had thunder but no lightning, why is that? No rain either.    <br><br><br>            anon43686        <br><br>            yesterday        <br>the lightning just shot out in different directions and didn't happen to pass by where you were.    <br><br><br>            anon40744        <br><br>            August 10, 2009        <br>we had thunder today --all day-- and not one time did we have lightning! Explain that one please!    <br><br><br>            anon35647        <br><br>            July 6, 2009        <br>its heat lightning    <br><br><br>            anon2628        <br><br>            July 19, 2007        <br>It's because the thunder is too far away too be heard.  Thunder always follows lighting    <br><br><br>            anon2470        <br><br>            July 12, 2007        <br>I live in the Caribbean and sometime lightening flashes but no sound of thunder why is this?    <br>Post your comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Please enter the following code:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Login:<br><br><br><br>Forgot password?<br><br><br>Register:

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) using_accelerometer_as_a_seismograph/Richter_scale3.txt
> part3 -------------------<br>Development[edit]<br>Charles Francis Richter (circa 1970)<br>Prior to the development of the magnitude scale, the only measure of an earthquake's strength or "size" was a subjective assessment of the intensity of shaking observed near the epicenter of the earthquake, categorized by various seismic intensity scales such as the Rossi-Forel scale. ("Size" is used in the sense of the quantity of energy released, not the size of the area affected by shaking, though higher-energy earthquakes do tend to affect a wider area, depending on the local geology.) In 1883, John Milne surmised that the shaking of large earthquakes might generate waves detectable around the globe, and in 1899 E. Von Rehbur Paschvitz observed in Germany seismic waves attributable to an earthquake in Tokyo. In the 1920s, Harry O. Wood and John A. Anderson developed the Wood–Anderson seismograph, one of the first practical instruments for recording seismic waves. Wood then built, under the auspices of the California Institute of Technology and the Carnegie Institute, a network of seismographs stretching across Southern California. He also recruited the young and unknown Charles Richter to measure the seismograms and locate the earthquakes generating the seismic waves.<br>In 1931, Kiyoo Wadati showed how he had measured, for several strong earthquakes in Japan, the amplitude of the shaking observed at various distances from the epicenter. He then plotted the logarithm of the amplitude against the distance and found a series of curves that showed a rough correlation with the estimated magnitudes of the earthquakes. Richter resolved some difficulties with this method and then, using data collected by his colleague Beno Gutenberg, he produced similar curves, confirming that they could be used to compare the relative magnitudes of different earthquakes.<br>Additional developments were required to produce a practical method of assigning an absolute measure of magnitude . First, to span the wide range of possible values, Richter adopted Gutenberg's suggestion of a logarithmic scale, where each step represents a tenfold increase of magnitude, similar to the magnitude scale used by astronomers for star brightness. Second, he wanted a magnitude of zero to be around the limit of human perceptibility. Third, he specified the Wood–Anderson seismograph as the standard instrument for producing seismograms. Magnitude was then defined as "the logarithm of the maximum trace amplitude, expressed in microns", measured at a distance of 100 km (62 mi). The scale was calibrated by defining a magnitude 0 shock as one that produces (at a distance of 100 km (62 mi)) a maximum amplitude of 1 micron (1 µm, or 0.001 millimeters) on a seismogram recorded by a Wood-Anderson torsion seismometer. Finally, Richter calculated a table of distance corrections, in that for distances less than 200 kilometers the attenuation is strongly affected by the structure and properties of the regional geology.<br>When Richter presented the resulting scale in 1935, he called it (at the suggestion of Harry Wood) simply a "magnitude" scale. "Richter magnitude" appears to have originated when Perry Byerly told the press that the scale was Richter's and "should be referred to as such." In 1956, Gutenberg and Richter, while still referring to "magnitude scale", labelled it "local magnitude", with the symbol ML , to distinguish it from two other scales they had developed, the surface wave magnitude (MS) and body wave magnitude (MB) scales.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) salt_pits/red_pits1_1637.txt
> , which I soon found out was useless from the voiceline and no materials being picked up.<br>  </p<p<br>    I can't say I've  ever had that issue..Could you or your friend maybe be a bit colorblind by chance? Or maybe eventually have a colorblind mode if people can't differentiate the colors well enough to where it hinders you?<br>  </p<br>  </div<br>      </div

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) -999_celsius_degree/absolute_hot4_136.txt
> , or about minus 460°F. You can't get colder than that; it would be like trying to go south from the South Pole. Is there a corresponding maximum possible temperature?</p<pWell, the answer, depending on which theoretical physicist you ask, is yes, no, or maybe.</p<br><p<iHuh?</i you ask. Yeah, that's how I felt. And the question doesn't just mess with the minds of physics dummies like me. Several physicists begged off of trying to answer it, referring me to colleagues. Even


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 7, feel_earthquake/Seismic_magnitude_scales4.txt
> Moment magnitude and energy magnitude scales[edit]<br>Main article: Moment magnitude scale<br>Other magnitude scales are based on aspects of seismic waves that only indirectly and incompletely reflect the force of an earthquake, involve other factors, and are generally limited in some respect of magnitude, focal depth, or distance.  The moment magnitude scale – Mw or Mw – developed by seismologists Thomas C. Hanks and Hiroo Kanamori,[47] is based on an earthquake's seismic moment, M0, a measure of how much work an earthquake does in sliding one patch of rock past another patch of rock.[48] Seismic moment is measured in Newton-meters (Nm or N·m) in the SI system of measurement, or dyne-centimeters (dyn-cm; 1 dyn-cm = 10−7 Nm) in the older CGS system.  In the simplest case the moment can be calculated knowing only the amount of slip, the area of the surface ruptured or slipped, and a factor for the resistance or friction encountered. These factors can be estimated for an existing fault to determine the magnitude of past earthquakes, or what might be anticipated for the future.[49]<br>An earthquake's seismic moment can be estimated in various ways, which are the bases of the Mwb, Mwr, Mwc, Mww, Mwp, Mi, and Mwpd scales, all subtypes of the generic Mw scale. See Moment magnitude scale § Subtypes for details.<br>Seismic moment is considered the most objective measure of an earthquake's "size" in regard of total energy.[50] However, it is based on a simple model of rupture, and on certain simplifying assumptions; it does not account for the fact that the proportion of energy radiated as seismic waves varies among earthquakes.[51]<br>Much of an earthquake's total energy as measured by Mw  is dissipated as friction (resulting in heating of the crust).[52] An earthquake's potential to cause strong ground shaking depends on the comparatively small fraction of energy radiated as seismic waves, and is better measured on the energy magnitude scale, Me.[53] The proportion of total energy radiated as seismic waves varies greatly depending on focal mechanism and tectonic environment;[54] Me  and Mw  for very similar earthquakes can differ by as much as 1.4 units.[55]<br>Despite the usefulness of the Me  scale, it is not generally used due to difficulties in estimating the radiated seismic energy.[56]<br><br><br><br>Two earthquakes differing greatly in the damage done<br>In 1997 there were two large earthquakes off the coast of Chile. The magnitude of the first, in July, was estimated at Mw 6.9, but was barely felt, and only in three places. In October a Mw 7.1 quake in nearly the same location, but twice as deep and on a different kind of fault, was felt over a broad area, injured over 300 people, and destroyed or seriously damaged over 10,000 houses. As can be seen in the table below, this disparity of damage done is not reflected in either the moment magnitude (Mw ) nor the surface-wave magnitude (Ms ). Only when the magnitude is measured on the basis of the body-wave (mb ) or the seismic energy (Me ) is there a difference comparable to the difference in damage.<br><br><br><br>Date<br>ISC #<br><br>Lat.<br>Long.<br>Depth<br>Damage<br><br>Ms <br>Mw <br>mb <br>Me <br><br>Type of fault<br><br><br>06 July 1997<br>1035633<br><br>−30.06<br>−71.87<br>23 km<br>Barely felt<br><br>6.5<br>6.9<br>5.8<br>6.1<br><br>interplate-thrust<br><br><br>15 Oct. 1997<br>1047434<br><br>−30.93<br>−71.22<br>58 km<br>Extensive<br><br>6.8<br>7.1<br>6.8<br>7.5<br><br>intraslab-normal<br><br><br>Difference:<br><br><br><br>0.3<br>0.2<br>1.0<br>1.4<br><br>Rearranged and adapted from Table 1 in Choy, Boatwright & Kirby 2001, p. 13.  Seen also in IS 3.6 2012, p. 7.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Energy class (K-class) scale[edit]<br>Main article: Energy class<br>K (from the Russian word класс, "class", in the sense of a category[57]) is a measure of earthquake magnitude in the energy class or K-class system, developed in 1955 by Soviet seismologists in the remote Garm (Tajikistan) region of Central Asia; in revised form it is still used for local and regional quakes in many states formerly aligned with the Soviet Union (including Cuba). Based on seismic energy (K = log ES, in Joules), difficulty in implementing it using the technology of the time led to revisions in 1958 and 1960. Adaptation to local conditions has led to various regional K scales, such as KF and KS.[58]<br>K values are logarithmic, similar to Richter-style magnitudes, but have a different scaling and zero point. K values in the range of 12 to 15 correspond approximately to M 4.5 to 6.[59] M(K), M(K), or possibly MK indicates a magnitude M calculated from an energy class K.[60]<br><br><br>Tsunami magnitude scales[edit]<br>Earthquakes that generate tsunamis generally rupture relatively slowly, delivering more energy at longer periods (lower frequencies) than generally used for measuring magnitudes. Any skew in the spectral distribution can result in larger, or smaller, tsunamis than expected for a nominal magnitude.[61] The tsunami magnitude scale, Mt, is based on a correlation by Katsuyuki Abe of earthquake seismic moment (M0 ) with the amplitude of tsunami waves as measured by tidal gauges.[62] Originally intended for estimating the magnitude of historic earthquakes where seismic data is lacking but tidal data exist, the correlation can be reversed to predict tidal height from earthquake magnitude.[63] (Not to be confused with the height of a tidal wave, or run-up, which is an intensity effect controlled by local topography.) Under low-noise conditions, tsunami waves as little as 5 cm can be predicted, corresponding to an earthquake of M ~6.5.[64]<br>Another scale of particular importance for tsunami warnings is the mantle magnitude scale, Mm.[65] This is based on Rayleigh waves that penetrate into the Earth's mantle, and can be determined quickly, and without complete knowledge of other parameters such as the earthquake's depth.<br><br><br>Duration and Coda magnitude scales[edit]<br>Main article: Earthquake duration magnitude<br>Md designates various scales that estimate magnitude from the duration or length of some part of the seismic wave-train. This is especially useful for measuring local or regional earthquakes, both powerful earthquakes that might drive the seismometer off-scale (a problem with the analog instruments formerly used) and preventing measurement of the maximum wave amplitude, and weak earthquakes, whose maximum amplitude is not accurately measured.  Even for distant earthquakes, measuring the duration of the shaking (as well as the amplitude) provides a better measure of the earthquake's total energy. Measurement of duration is incorporated in some modern scales, such as Mwpd  and mBc .[66]<br>Mc scales usually measure the duration or amplitude of a part of the seismic wave, the coda.[67] For short distances (less than ~100 km) these can provide a quick estimate of magnitude before the quake's exact location is known.[68]<br><br><br>Macroseismic magnitude scales[edit]<br>Magnitude scales generally are based on instrumental measurement of some aspect of the seismic wave as recorded on a seismogram. Where such records do not exist, magnitudes can be estimated from reports of the macroseismic events such as described by intensity scales.[69]<br>One approach for doing this (developed by Beno Gutenberg and Charles Richter in 1942[70]) relates the maximum intensity observed (presumably this is over the epicenter), denoted I0 (capital I  with a subscripted zero), to the magnitude. It has been recommended that magnitudes calculated on this basis be labeled Mw(I0),[71] but are sometimes labeled with a more generic Mms.<br>Another approach is to make an isoseismal map showing the area over which a given level of intensity was felt. The size of the "felt area" can also be related to the magnitude (based on the work of Frankel 1994 and Johnston 1996). While the recommended label for magnitudes derived in this way is M0(An),[72] the more commonly seen label is Mfa.[73] A variant, MLa, adapted to California and Hawaii, derives the Local magnitude (ML) from the size of the area affected by a given intensity.[74] MI (upper-case letter "I", distinguished from the lower-case letter in Mi) has been used for moment magnitudes estimated from isoseismal intensities calculated per Johnston 1996.[75]<br>Peak ground velocity (PGV) and Peak ground acceleration (PGA) are measures of the force that causes destructive ground shaking.[76] In Japan, a network of strong-motion accelerometers provides PGA data that permits site-specific correlation with different magnitude earthquakes. This correlation can be inverted to estimate the ground shaking at that site due to an earthquake of a given magnitude at a given distance. From this a map showing areas of likely damage can be prepared within minutes of an actual earthquake.[77]<br><br><br>Other magnitude scales[edit]<br>Many earthquake magnitude scales have been developed or proposed, with some never gaining broad acceptance and remaining only as obscure references in historical catalogs of earthquakes. Other scales have been used without a definite name, often referred to as "the method of Smith (1965)" (or similar language), with the authors often revising their method.  On top of this, seismological networks vary on how they measure seismograms.  Where the details of how a magnitude has been determined are unknown, catalogs will specify the scale as unknown (variously Unk, Ukn, or UK). In such cases, the magnitude is considered generic and approximate.<br>An Mh ("magnitude determined by hand") label has been used where the magnitude is too small or the data too poor (typically from analog equipment) to determine a Local magnitude, or multiple shocks or cultural noise complicates the records. The Southern California Seismic Network uses this "magnitude" where the data fail the quality criteria.[78]<br>A special case is the Seismicity of the Earth catalog of Gutenberg & Richter (1954).  Hailed as a milestone as a comprehensive global catalog of earthquakes with uniformly calculated magnitudes,[79] they never published the full details of how they determined those magnitudes.[80] Consequently, while some catalogs identify these magnitudes as MGR, others use UK (meaning "computational method unknown").[81] Subsequent study found many of the Ms  values to be "considerably overestimated."[82] Further study has found that most of the MGR  magnitudes "are basically Ms  for large shocks shallower than 40 km, but are basically mB  for large shocks at depths of 40–60 km."[83] Gutenberg and Richter also used an italic, non-bold "M without subscript"[84] – also used as a generic magnitude, and not to be confused with the bold, non-italic M used for moment magnitude – and a "unified magnitude" m (bolding added).[85] While these terms (with various adjustments) were used in scientific articles into the 1970s,[86] they are now only of historical interest. An ordinary (non-italic, non-bold) capital "M" without subscript is often used to refer to magnitude generically, where an exact value or the specific scale used is not important.<br><br>See also[edit]<br>Magnitude of completeness<br>Epicentral distance<br>Citations[edit]<br><br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, p. 37.  The relationship between magnitude and the energy released is complicated.  See §3.1.2.5 and §3.3.3 for details.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.1.2.1.<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, p. 164 et seq..<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, pp. 170–171.<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, p. 170.<br><br>^ See Bolt 1993, Chapters 2 and 3, for a very readable explanation of these waves and their interpretation. J. R. Kayal's description of seismic waves can be found here.<br><br>^ See Havskov & Ottemöller 2009, §1.4, pp. 20–21, for a short explanation, or MNSOP-2 EX 3.1 2012 for a technical description.<br><br>^ Chung & Bernreuter 1980, p. 1.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, p. 18.<br><br>^ IASPEI IS 3.3 2014, pp. 2–3.<br><br>^ Kanamori 1983, p. 187.<br><br>^ Richter 1935, p. 7.<br><br>^ Spence, Sipkin & Choy 1989, p. 61.<br><br>^ Richter 1935, pp. 5; Chung & Bernreuter 1980, p. 10. Subsequently redefined by Hutton & Boore 1987 as 10 mm of motion by an ML 3 quake at 17 km.<br><br>^ Chung & Bernreuter 1980, p. 1; Kanamori 1983, p. 187, figure 2.<br><br>^ Chung & Bernreuter 1980, p. ix.<br><br>^ The "USGS Earthquake Magnitude Policy" for reporting earthquake magnitudes to the public as formulated by the USGS Earthquake Magnitude Working Group was implemented January 18, 2002, and posted at https://earthquake.usgs.gov/aboutus/docs/020204mag_policy.php. It has since been removed; a copy is archived at the Wayback Machine, and the essential part can be found here.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.2.4, p. 59.<br><br>^ Rautian & Leith 2002, pp. 158, 162.<br><br>^ See Datasheet 3.1 in NMSOP-2 Archived 2019-08-04 at the Wayback Machine for a partial compilation and references.<br><br>^ Katsumata 1996; Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.2.4.7, p. 78; Doi 2010.<br><br>^ Bormann & Saul 2009, p. 2478.<br><br>^ See also figure 3.70 in NMSOP-2.<br><br>^ Havskov & Ottemöller 2009, p. 17.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, p. 37; Havskov & Ottemöller 2009, §6.5. See also Abe 1981.<br><br>^ Havskov & Ottemöller 2009, p. 191.<br><br>^ Bormann & Saul 2009, p. 2482.<br><br>^ MNSOP-2/IASPEI IS 3.3 2014, §4.2, pp. 15–16.<br><br>^ Kanamori 1983, pp. 189, 196; Chung & Bernreuter 1980, p. 5.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, pp. 37, 39; Bolt (1993, pp. 88–93) examines this at length.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, p. 103.<br><br>^ IASPEI IS 3.3 2014, p. 18.<br><br>^ Nuttli 1983, p. 104; Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, p. 103.<br><br>^ IASPEI/NMSOP-2 IS 3.2 2013, p. 8.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.2.4.4. The "g" subscript refers to the granitic layer through which Lg waves propagate.Chen & Pomeroy 1980, p. 4. See also J. R. Kayal, "Seismic Waves and Earthquake Location", here, page 5.<br><br>^ Nuttli 1973, p. 881.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.2.4.4.<br><br>^ Havskov & Ottemöller 2009, pp. 17–19. See especially figure 1-10.<br><br>^ Gutenberg 1945a; based on work by Gutenberg & Richter 1936.<br><br>^ Gutenberg 1945a.<br><br>^ Kanamori 1983, p. 187.<br><br>^ Stover & Coffman 1993, p. 3.<br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, pp. 81–84.<br><br>^ MNSOP-2 DS 3.1 2012, p. 8.<br><br>^ Bormann et al. 2007, p. 118.<br><br>^ Rautian & Leith 2002, pp. 162, 164.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 5, feel_earthquake/Seismic_magnitude_scales3.txt
> ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>Magnitude of an earthquake<br>Part of a series onEarthquakes<br>Types<br>Mainshock<br>Foreshock<br>Aftershock<br>Blind thrust<br>Doublet<br>Interplate<br>Intraplate<br>Megathrust<br>Remotely triggered<br>Slow<br>Submarine<br>Supershear<br>Tsunami<br>Earthquake swarm<br><br>Causes<br>Fault movement<br>Volcanism<br>Induced seismicity<br><br>Characteristics<br>Epicenter<br>Epicentral distance<br>Hypocenter<br>Shadow zone<br>Seismic waves<br>P wave<br>S wave<br><br>Measurement<br>Seismometer<br>Seismic magnitude scales<br>Seismic intensity scales<br><br>Prediction<br>Coordinating Committee forEarthquake Prediction<br>Forecasting<br><br>Other topics<br>Shear wave splitting<br>Adams–Williamson equation<br>Flinn–Engdahl regions<br>Earthquake engineering<br>Seismite<br>Seismology<br><br>Earth Sciences Portal<br>Category<br>Related topicsvte<br>Seismic magnitude scales are used to describe the overall strength or "size" of an earthquake. These are distinguished from seismic intensity scales that categorize the intensity or severity of ground shaking (quaking) caused by an earthquake at a given location.  Magnitudes are usually determined from measurements of an earthquake's seismic waves as recorded on a seismogram.  Magnitude scales vary based on what aspect of the seismic waves are measured and how they are measured. Different magnitude scales are necessary because of differences in earthquakes, the information available, and the purposes for which the magnitudes are used.<br><br><br>Earthquake magnitude and ground-shaking intensity [edit]<br>Isoseismal map for the 1968 Illinois earthquake. The irregular distribution of shaking arises from variations of geology and/or ground conditions.<br>The Earth's crust is stressed by tectonic forces. When this stress becomes great enough to rupture the crust, or to overcome the friction that prevents one block of crust from slipping past another, energy is released, some of it in the form of various kinds of seismic waves that cause ground-shaking, or quaking.<br>Magnitude is an estimate of the relative "size" or strength of an earthquake, and thus its potential for causing ground-shaking. It is "approximately related to the released seismic energy."[1]<br>Intensity refers to the strength or force of shaking at a given location, and can be related to the peak ground velocity. With an isoseismal map of the observed intensities (see illustration) an earthquake's magnitude can be estimated from both the maximum intensity observed (usually but not always near the epicenter), and from the extent of the area where the earthquake was felt.[2]<br>The intensity of local ground-shaking depends on several factors besides the magnitude of the earthquake,[3] one of the most important being soil conditions. For instance, thick layers of soft soil (such as fill) can amplify seismic waves, often at a considerable distance from the source, while sedimentary basins will often resonate, increasing the duration of shaking. This is why, in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, the Marina district of San Francisco was one of the most damaged areas, though it was nearly 100 km from the epicenter.[4] Geological structures were also significant, such as where seismic waves passing under the south end of San Francisco Bay reflected off the base of the Earth's crust towards San Francisco and Oakland. A similar effect channeled seismic waves between the other major faults in the area.[5]<br><br>Magnitude scales[edit]<br>Typical seismogram. The compressive P-waves (following the red lines) – essentially sound passing through rock – are the fastest seismic waves, and arrive first, typically in about 10 seconds for an earthquake around 50 km away. The sideways-shaking S-waves (following the green lines) arrive some seconds later, traveling a little over half the speed of the P-waves; the delay is a direct indication of the distance to the quake. S-waves may take an hour to reach a point 1000 km away. Both of these are body-waves, that pass directly through the earth's crust. Following the S-waves are various kinds of surface-waves – Love waves and Rayleigh waves – that travel only at the earth's surface. Surface waves are smaller for deep earthquakes, which have less interaction with the surface. For shallow earthquakes – less than roughly 60 km deep – the surface waves are stronger, and may last several minutes; these carry most of the energy of the quake, and cause the most severe damage.<br>An earthquake radiates energy in the form of different kinds of seismic waves, whose characteristics reflect the nature of both the rupture and the earth's crust the waves travel through.[6] Determination of an earthquake's magnitude generally involves identifying specific kinds of these waves on a seismogram, and then measuring one or more characteristics of a wave, such as its timing, orientation, amplitude, frequency, or duration.[7] Additional adjustments are made for distance, kind of crust, and the characteristics of the seismograph that recorded the seismogram.<br>The various magnitude scales represent different ways of deriving magnitude from such information as is available. All magnitude scales retain the logarithmic scale as devised by Charles Richter, and are adjusted so the mid-range approximately correlates with the original "Richter" scale.[8]<br>Most magnitude scales are based on measurements of only part of an earthquake's seismic wave-train, and therefore are incomplete. This results in systematic underestimation of magnitude in certain cases, a condition called saturation.[9]<br>Since 2005 the International Association of Seismology and Physics of the Earth's Interior (IASPEI) has standardized the measurement procedures and equations for the principal magnitude scales, ML , Ms , mb , mB  and mbLg .[10]<br><br><br>"Richter" magnitude scale[edit]<br>Main article: Richter magnitude scale<br>The first scale for measuring earthquake magnitudes, developed in 1935 by Charles F. Richter and popularly known as the "Richter" scale, is actually the Local magnitude scale, label ML or ML.[11] Richter established two features now common to all magnitude scales.<br><br>First, the scale is logarithmic, so that each unit represents a ten-fold increase in the amplitude of the seismic waves.[12] As the energy of a wave is proportional to A1.5, where A denotes the amplitude, each unit of magnitude represents a 101.5≈32-fold increase in the seismic energy (strength) of an earthquake.[13]<br>Second, Richter arbitrarily defined the zero point of the scale to be where an earthquake at a distance of 100 km makes a maximum horizontal displacement of 0.001 millimeters (1 µm, or 0.00004 in.) on a seismogram recorded with a Wood-Anderson torsion seismograph.[14] Subsequent magnitude scales are calibrated to be approximately in accord with the original "Richter" (local) scale around magnitude 6.[15]<br>All "Local" (ML) magnitudes are based on the maximum amplitude of the ground shaking, without distinguishing the different seismic waves. They underestimate the strength:<br><br>of distant earthquakes (over ~600 km) because of attenuation of the S-waves,<br>of deep earthquakes because the surface waves are smaller, and<br>of strong earthquakes (over M ~7) because they do not take into account the duration of shaking.<br>The original "Richter" scale, developed in the geological context of Southern California and Nevada, was later found to be inaccurate for earthquakes in the central and eastern parts of the continent (everywhere east of the Rocky Mountains) because of differences in the continental crust.[16] All these problems prompted the development of other scales.<br>Most seismological authorities, such as the United States Geological Survey, report earthquake magnitudes above 4.0 as moment magnitude (below), which the press describes as "Richter magnitude".[17]<br><br><br>Other "local" magnitude scales[edit]<br>Richter's original "local" scale has been adapted for other localities. These may be labelled "ML", or with a lowercase "l", either Ml, or Ml.[18] (Not to be confused with the Russian surface-wave MLH scale.[19])<br>Whether the values are comparable depends on whether the local conditions have been adequately determined and the formula suitably adjusted.[20]<br><br><br>Japan Meteorological Agency magnitude scale[edit]<br>Main article: Japan Meteorological Agency magnitude scale<br>In Japan, for shallow (depth < 60 km) earthquakes within 600 km, the Japanese Meteorological Agency calculates[21] a magnitude labeled MJMA, MJMA, or MJ.  (These should not be confused with moment magnitudes JMA calculates, which are labeled Mw(JMA) or M(JMA), nor with the Shindo intensity scale.) JMA magnitudes are based (as typical with local scales) on the maximum amplitude of the ground motion; they agree "rather well"[22] with the seismic moment magnitude Mw  in the range of 4.5 to 7.5,[23] but underestimate larger magnitudes.<br><br><br>Body-wave magnitude scales[edit]<br>Main article: Body wave magnitude<br>Body-waves consist of P-waves that are the first to arrive (see seismogram), or S-waves, or reflections of either. Body-waves travel through rock directly.[24]<br><br>mB scale[edit]<br>The original "body-wave magnitude" – mB or mB (uppercase "B") – was developed by Gutenberg 1945c and Gutenberg & Richter 1956[25] to overcome the distance and magnitude limitations of the ML  scale inherent in the use of surface waves. mB  is based on the P- and S-waves, measured over a longer period, and does not saturate until around M 8. However, it is not sensitive to events smaller than about M 5.5.[26] Use of mB  as originally defined has been largely abandoned,[27] now replaced by the standardized mBBB  scale.[28]<br><br>mb scale[edit]<br>The  mb or mb scale (lowercase "m" and "b") is similar to mB , but uses only P-waves measured in the first few seconds on a specific model of short-period seismograph.[29] It was introduced in the 1960s with the establishment of the World-Wide Standardized Seismograph Network (WWSSN); the short period improves detection of smaller events, and better discriminates between tectonic earthquakes and underground nuclear explosions.[30]<br>Measurement of mb  has changed several times.[31] As originally defined by Gutenberg (1945c) mb was based on the maximum amplitude of waves in the first 10 seconds or more. However, the length of the period influences the magnitude obtained. Early USGS/NEIC practice was to measure mb  on the first second (just the first few P-waves[32]), but since 1978 they measure the first twenty seconds.[33] The modern practice is to measure short-period mb  scale at less than three seconds, while the broadband mBBB  scale is measured at periods of up to 30 seconds.[34]<br><br>mbLg scale [edit]<br>Differences in the crust underlying North America east of the Rocky Mountains makes that area more sensitive to earthquakes. Shown here: the 1895 New Madrid earthquake, M ~6, was felt through most of the central U.S., while the 1994 Northridge quake, though almost ten times stronger at M 6.7, was felt only in southern California. From USGS Fact Sheet 017–03.<br>The regional mbLg scale – also denoted mb_Lg, mbLg, MLg (USGS), Mn, and mN – was developed by Nuttli (1973) for a problem the original ML scale could not handle: all of North America east of the Rocky Mountains. The ML scale was developed in southern California, which lies on blocks of oceanic crust, typically basalt or sedimentary rock, which have been accreted to the continent. East of the Rockies the continent is a craton, a thick and largely stable mass of continental crust that is largely granite, a harder rock with different seismic characteristics. In this area the ML scale gives anomalous results for earthquakes which by other measures seemed equivalent to quakes in California.<br>Nuttli resolved this by measuring the amplitude of short-period (~1 sec.) Lg waves,[35] a complex form of the Love wave which, although a surface wave, he found provided a result more closely related to the mb  scale than the Ms  scale.[36] Lg waves attenuate quickly along any oceanic path, but propagate well through the granitic continental crust, and MbLg is often used in areas of stable continental crust; it is especially useful for detecting underground nuclear explosions.[37]<br><br><br>Surface-wave magnitude scales[edit]<br>Main article: Surface-wave magnitude<br>Surface waves propagate along the Earth's surface, and are principally either Rayleigh waves or Love waves.[38] For shallow earthquakes the surface waves carry most of the energy of the earthquake, and are the most destructive. Deeper earthquakes, having less interaction with the surface, produce weaker surface waves.<br>The surface-wave magnitude scale, variously denoted as Ms, MS, and Ms, is based on a procedure developed by Beno Gutenberg in 1942[39] for measuring shallow earthquakes stronger or more distant than Richter's original scale could handle. Notably, it measured the amplitude of surface waves (which generally produce the largest amplitudes) for a period of "about 20 seconds".[40] The Ms  scale approximately agrees with ML  at ~6, then diverges by as much as half a magnitude.[41] A revision by Nuttli (1983), sometimes labeled MSn,[42] measures only waves of the first second.<br>A modification – the "Moscow-Prague formula" – was proposed in 1962, and recommended by the IASPEI in 1967; this is the basis of the standardized Ms20 scale (Ms_20, Ms(20)).[43] A "broad-band" variant (Ms_BB, Ms(BB)) measures the largest velocity amplitude in the Rayleigh-wave train for periods up to 60 seconds.[44] The MS7 scale used in China is a variant of Ms calibrated for use with the Chinese-made "type 763" long-period seismograph.[45]<br>The MLH scale used in some parts of Russia is actually a surface-wave magnitude.[46]

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 34, feel_earthquake/Seismic_intensity_scales4.txt
> Characteristics<br>Epicenter<br>Epicentral distance<br>Hypocenter<br>Shadow zone<br>Seismic waves<br>P wave<br>S wave<br><br>Measurement<br>Seismometer<br>Seismic magnitude scales<br>Seismic intensity scales<br><br>Prediction<br>Coordinating Committee forEarthquake Prediction<br>Forecasting<br><br>Other topics<br>Shear wave splitting<br>Adams–Williamson equation<br>Flinn–Engdahl regions<br>Earthquake engineering<br>Seismite<br>Seismology<br><br>Earth Sciences Portal<br>Category<br>Related topicsvte<br>Seismic intensity scales categorize the intensity or severity of ground shaking (quaking) at a given location, such as resulting from an earthquake. They are distinguished from seismic magnitude scales, which measure the magnitude or overall strength of an earthquake, which may, or perhaps may not, cause perceptible shaking.<br>Intensity scales are based on the observed effects of the shaking, such as the degree to which people or animals were alarmed, and the extent and severity of damage to different kinds of structures or natural features.  The maximal intensity observed, and the extent of the area where shaking was felt (see isoseismal map, below), can be used to estimate the location and magnitude of the source earthquake; this is especially useful for historical earthquakes where there is no instrumental record.<br><br><br>Ground shaking[edit]<br>Ground shaking can be caused in various ways (volcanic tremors, avalanches, large explosions, etc.), but shaking intense enough to cause damage is usually due to rupturing of the Earth's crust known as earthquakes.  The intensity of shaking depends on several factors: <br><br>The "size" or strength of the source event, such as measured by various seismic magnitude scales.<br>The type of seismic wave generated, and its orientation.<br>The depth of the event.<br>The distance from the source event.<br>Site response due to local geology<br>Site response is especially important as certain conditions, such as unconsolidated sediments in a basin, can amplify ground motions as much as ten times.<br><br>Isoseismal map for the 1968 Illinois earthquake, showing the extent of different levels of shaking. The irregularity of areas is due to ground conditions and the underlying geology.<br>Where an earthquake is not recorded on seismographs an isoseismal map showing the intensities felt at different areas can be used to estimate the location and magnitude of the quake.[1] Such maps are also useful for estimating the shaking intensity, and thereby the likely level of damage, to be expected from a future earthquake of similar magnitude. In Japan this kind of information is used when an earthquake occurs to anticipate the severity of damage to be expected in different areas.[2]<br>The intensity of local ground-shaking depends on several factors besides the magnitude of the earthquake,[3] one of the most important being soil conditions. For instance, thick layers of soft soil (such as fill) can amplify seismic waves, often at a considerable distance from the source, while sedimentary basins will often resonate, increasing the duration of shaking. This is why, in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, the Marina district of San Francisco was one of the most damaged areas, though it was nearly 100 kilometres (60 mi) from the epicenter.[4] Geological structures were also significant, such as where seismic waves passing under the south end of San Francisco Bay reflected off the base of the Earth's crust towards San Francisco and Oakland. A similar effect channeled seismic waves between the other major faults in the area.[5]<br><br>History[edit]<br>The first simple classification of earthquake intensity was devised by Domenico Pignataro in the 1780s.[6] The first recognisable intensity scale in the modern sense of the word was drawn up by P.N.G. Egen in 1828. However, the first modern mapping of earthquake intensity was made by Robert Mallet, an Irish engineer who was sent by Imperial College, London, to research the December 1857 Basilicata earthquake, also known as The Great Neapolitan Earthquake of 1857.[7] The first widely adopted intensity scale, the Rossi–Forel scale, was introduced in the late 19th century as a 10 grade scale.[8] In 1902, Italian seismologist Giuseppe Mercalli, created the Mercalli Scale, a new 12-grade scale. A very significant improvement was achieved, mainly by Charles Francis Richter during the 1950s, when (1) a correlation was found between seismic intensity and the Peak ground acceleration - PGA (see the equation that Richter found for California).[9] (2) a definition of the strength of the buildings, and a subdivision into groups (called type of buildings) was made. Then, the evaluation of the seismic intensity was based upon the damage grade to a given type of structure. That gave the Mercalli Scale, as well as the followed European MSK-64 scale, the quantitative element, which represents the vulnerability of the building's type.[10] Since then, that scale was called the Modified Mercalli intensity scale - MMS and the evaluations of the Seismic Intensities became more reliable.[11]<br>In addition, more intensity scales have been developed and are used in different parts of the world:<br><br><br><br>Country/Region<br><br>Seismic intensity scale used<br><br><br> China<br>Liedu scale (GB/T 17742–1999)<br><br><br> Europe<br>European Macroseismic Scale (EMS-98)[12]<br><br><br> Hong Kong<br>Modified Mercalli scale (MM)[13]<br><br><br> India<br>Medvedev–Sponheuer–Karnik scale<br><br><br> Indonesia<br>Modified Mercalli scale (MM)[14]<br><br><br> Israel<br>Medvedev–Sponheuer–Karnik scale (MSK-64)<br><br><br> Japan<br>JMA Seismic Intensity Scale<br><br><br> Kazakhstan<br>Medvedev–Sponheuer–Karnik scale (MSK-64)<br><br><br> Philippines<br>PHIVOLCS Earthquake Intensity Scale (PEIS)<br><br><br> Russia<br>Medvedev–Sponheuer–Karnik scale (MSK-64)<br><br><br> Taiwan<br>Central Weather Administration seismic intensity scale[15]<br><br><br> United States<br>Modified Mercalli scale (MM)[16]<br><br><br>See also[edit]<br>Earthquake engineering<br>Peak ground acceleration<br>Seismic performance<br>Spectral acceleration<br>Notes[edit]<br><br><br>^ Bormann, Wendt & Di Giacomo 2013, §3.1.2.1.<br><br>^ Doi 2010.<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, p. 164 et seq..<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, pp. 170–171.<br><br>^ Bolt 1993, p. 170.<br><br>^ Alexander 1993, p. 28.<br><br>^ Mallet 1862.<br><br>^ Bolt 1988, p. 147.<br><br>^ <br><br><br><br>log<br>⁡<br>a<br>=
