# Query `96`

## Original Question

*I have a theoretical exercise where I calculated the amount of CO2 that is released to the atmosphere per year (4.6 ppm). We assume that the relative increase of CO2 is 2 ppm, hence the percentage of CO2 that stays in the atmosphere is around 2/4.6 ~ 40 %.

What is the technical term for this percentage?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0345
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.6667
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1816
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1816
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0270
map_cut_100: 0.0270
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) co2_abundance/Carbon_dioxide_in_Earth_27s_atmosphere3_6.txt
> emissions have been caused by burning fossil fuels, and a little less than half of that has stayed in the atmosphere.<br>Current situation[edit]<br>Since the start of the Industrial Revolution, atmospheric CO2 concentration have been increasing, causing global warming and ocean acidification.[11] In October 2023 the average level of CO2 in Earth's atmosphere, adjusted for seasonal variation, was 422.17 parts per million by volume (ppm).[12] Figures are published monthly by the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).[13][14] The value had been about 280 ppm during the

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) co2_abundance/Carbon_dioxide_in_Earth_27s_atmosphere4_1.txt
> emissions began and did not vary much from this level during the preceding 10,000 years.[127][128] The longest ice core record comes from East Antarctica, where ice has been sampled to an age of 800,000 years.[129] During this time, the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration has varied between 180 and 210 ppm during ice ages, increasing to 280–300 ppm during warmer interglacials.[130][131]<br>CO2 mole fractions in the atmosphere have gone up by around 35 percent since the 1900s, rising from 280 parts per million by volume to 387 parts per million in 2009

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) airborne_fraction/Greenhouse_gas2_23.txt
> Clouds<br><br>31<br><br>25<br><br><br>CO2<br>26<br>18<br>24<br>19<br><br><br>Tropospheric ozone (O3)<br>8<br><br><br><br><br><br>N2O + CH4<br>6<br><br><br><br><br><br>Other<br><br>9<br>9<br>7<br><br><br><br>K&T (1997) used 353 ppm CO2 and calculated 125 W/m2 total clear-sky greenhouse effect; relied on single atmospheric profile and cloud model. "With Clouds" percentages are from Schmidt (2010) interpretation of K&T (1997).<br>Schmidt (2010)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) co2_breakdown/www_co2_earth2_0.txt
> Daily CO2<br>loading… =  loading…<br>loading… = loading…<br><br><br><br><br>March CO2<br>Mar. 2024 = 425.38 ppm<br>Mar. 2023 = 420.99 ppm<br><br><br><br><br><br>March Temperature<br>+1.66°C relative to 1880-1920<br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> Earth's CO2 Home Page<br><br><br>Atmospheric CO2<br><br>March 2024<br><br><br>425.38parts per million (ppm)<br>Mauna Loa Observatory, Hawaii (NOAA)<br><br>Preliminary data released

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) co2_abundance/_intent_1211_3.txt
> rise is greater than the natural increase observed at the end of the last ice age 20,000 years ago.<br>The animated map shows how the historical changes in global carbon dioxide over time. Note the colors change as the amount of CO2 rises from 365 parts per million (ppm) in 2002 to over 420 ppm currently. It's important to understand that “parts per million” refers to the number of carbon dioxide molecules per million molecules of dry air. These measurements are from the mid-troposphere, the layer of Earth's atmosphere that is 8 to 12 kilometers (about 5 to


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 42, airborne_fraction/Airborne_fraction4.txt
> F<br>F<br>(<br>t<br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle AF_{FF}={\frac {\frac {dC(t)}{dt}}{FF(t)}}}<br><br><br>Or, <br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br>F<br><br>F<br>F<br>+<br>L<br>U<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>d<br>C<br>(<br>t<br>)<br><br><br>d<br>t<br><br><br><br>F<br>F<br>(<br>t<br>)<br>+<br>L<br>U<br>(<br>t<br>)<br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle AF_{FF+LU}={\frac {\frac {dC(t)}{dt}}{FF(t)+LU(t)}}}<br><br><br>In which C is atmospheric carbon dioxide, t is time, FF is fossil-fuel emissions and LU is the emission to the atmosphere due to land use change. <br>At present, studies examining the trends in airborne fraction are producing contradictory outcomes, with emissions linked to land use and land cover change representing the most significant source of uncertainty. Some studies show that there is no statistical evidence of an increasing airborne fraction and calculated airborne fraction as,[6]<br><br><br><br><br>A<br>F<br>=<br><br><br><br>G<br><br>t<br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>F<br>F<br><br><br>+<br><br>E<br><br>L<br>U<br>C<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>{\displaystyle AF={\frac {G_{t}}{E_{FF}+E_{LUC}}}}<br><br><br>Where Gt is growth of atmospheric CO2 concentration, EFF is the fossil-fuel emissions flux, ELUC is the land use change emissions flux. <br>Another argument was presented that the airborne fraction of CO2 released by human activities, particularly through fossil-fuel emissions, cement production, and land-use changes, is on the rise.[7] Since 1959, the average CO2 airborne fraction has been 0.43, but it has shown an increase of approximately 0.2% per year over that period.[3]<br>On the other hand, the findings of another group suggest that the CO2 airborne fraction has declined by 0.014 ± 0.010 per decade since 1959.[8] This indicates that the combined land-ocean sink has expanded at a rate that is at least as rapid as anthropogenic emissions. The way they calculated the airborne fraction is:<br><br><br><br><br>A<br>F<br>=<br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>L<br>U<br>L<br>C<br>C<br><br><br>+<br><br>E

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, airborne_fraction/Airborne_fraction5.txt
> F<br>F<br><br><br>−<br><br>S<br><br>O<br><br><br>−<br><br>S<br><br>L<br><br><br><br><br><br>E<br><br>L<br>U<br>L<br>C<br>C<br><br><br>+<br><br>E<br><br>F<br>F<br><br><br><br><br><br>=<br>1<br>−<br>S<br>F<br><br><br>{\displaystyle AF={\frac {E_{LULCC}+E_{FF}-S_{O}-S_{L}}{E_{LULCC}+E_{FF}}}=1-SF}<br><br><br>Where, AF is airborne fraction and SF is sink fraction. ELULCC is the land use and land cover change emissions flux, EFF is the fossil-fuel emissions flux, and SO and SL are the ocean and land sinks, respectively.<br>The trend analyses of airborne fraction may be affected by external natural occurrences, such as the El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO), volcanic eruptions, and other similar events.[9] It is possible that the methodologies used in these studies to analyze the trend of airborne fraction are not robust, and therefore, the conclusions drawn from them are not warranted. <br><br>See also[edit]<br>Greenhouse gas<br>Carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere<br>Total Carbon Column Observing Network<br>Atmospheric carbon cycle<br>References[edit]<br><br><br>^ Forster, P, V Ramaswamy, P Artaxo, et al. (2007) Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing. In: Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate<br>Change [Solomon, S. et al. (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK & New York, USA.[1]<br><br>^ Friedlingstein, Pierre; O'Sullivan, Michael; Jones, Matthew W.; Andrew, Robbie M.; Hauck, Judith; Olsen, Are; Peters, Glen P.; Peters, Wouter; Pongratz, Julia; Sitch, Stephen; Le Quéré, Corinne; Canadell, Josep G.; Ciais, Philippe; Jackson, Robert B.; Alin, Simone (2020). "Global Carbon Budget 2020". Earth System Science Data. 12 (4): 3269–3340. Bibcode:2020ESSD...12.3269F. doi:10.5194/essd-12-3269-2020. ISSN 1866-3516.<br><br>^ a b Canadell, Josep G.; Le Quéré, Corinne; Raupach, Michael R.; Field, Christopher B.; Buitenhuis, Erik T.; Ciais, Philippe; Conway, Thomas J.; Gillett, Nathan P.; Houghton, R. A.; Marland, Gregg (2007). "Contributions to accelerating atmospheric CO2 growth from economic activity, carbon intensity, and efficiency of natural sinks". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 104 (47): 18866–18870. doi:10.1073/pnas.0702737104. ISSN 1091-6490. PMC 2141868. PMID 17962418.<br><br>^ Bennedsen, Mikkel; Hillebrand, Eric; Koopman, Siem Jan (2019). "Trend analysis of the airborne fraction and sink rate of anthropogenically released CO2". Biogeosciences. 16 (18): 3651–3663. Bibcode:2019BGeo...16.3651B. doi:10.5194/bg-16-3651-2019. ISSN 1726-4170. S2CID 73619561.<br><br>^ a b Gloor, M.; Sarmiento, J. L.; Gruber, N. (2010). "What can be learned about carbon cycle climate feedbacks from the CO2 airborne fraction?". Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics. 10 (16): 7739–7751. Bibcode:2010ACP....10.7739G. doi:10.5194/acp-10-7739-2010. ISSN 1680-7316.<br><br>^ Raupach, M. R.; Gloor, M.; Sarmiento, J. L.; Canadell, J. G.; Frölicher, T. L.; Gasser, T.; Houghton, R. A.; Le Quéré, C.; Trudinger, C. M. (2014-07-02). "The declining uptake rate of atmospheric CO<sub2</sub by land and ocean sinks". Biogeosciences. 11 (13): 3453–3475. Bibcode:2014BGeo...11.3453R. doi:10.5194/bg-11-3453-2014. ISSN 1726-4189. S2CID 54549366.<br><br>^ Raupach, M. R.; Canadell, J. G.; Le Quéré, C. (2008). "Anthropogenic and biophysical contributions to increasing atmospheric CO2 growth rate and airborne fraction". Biogeosciences. 5 (6): 1601–1613. Bibcode:2008BGeo....5.1601R. doi:10.5194/bg-5-1601-2008. ISSN 1726-4170.<br><br>^ van Marle, Margreet J. E.; van Wees, Dave; Houghton, Richard A.; Field, Robert D.; Verbesselt, Jan; van der Werf, Guido R. (2022). "New land-use-change emissions indicate a declining CO2 airborne fraction". Nature. 603 (7901): 450–454. Bibcode:2022Natur.603..450V. doi:10.1038/s41586-021-04376-4. hdl:1871.1/ec67359c-a4f5-4b8f-9489-e969504b969d. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 35296848. S2CID 247499538.<br><br>^ Frölicher, Thomas Lukas; Joos, Fortunat; Raible, Christoph Cornelius; Sarmiento, Jorge Louis (2013). "Atmospheric CO2 response to volcanic eruptions: The role of ENSO, season, and variability". Global Biogeochemical Cycles. 27 (1): 239–251. Bibcode:2013GBioC..27..239F. doi:10.1002/gbc.20028. S2CID 62894958.<br><br><br><br><br>This article about climate change is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See guidelines for writing about climate change. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.vte<br><br><br><br><br>Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Airborne_fraction&oldid=1187728801"<br>Categories: ClimatologyClimate change stubsHidden category: All stub articles<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> This page was last edited on 1 December 2023, at 01:52 (UTC).<br>Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;<br>additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.<br><br><br>Privacy policy<br>About Wikipedia<br>Disclaimers<br>Contact Wikipedia<br>Code of Conduct<br>Developers<br>Statistics<br>Cookie statement<br>Mobile view<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Toggle limited content width

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 28, airborne_fraction/Airborne_fraction3.txt
> ArticleTalk<br><br><br><br><br><br>English<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br><br><br><br><br><br>Tools<br>move to sidebar<br>hide<br><br><br><br>		Actions<br>	<br><br><br>ReadEditView history<br><br><br><br><br><br>		General<br>	<br><br><br>What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item<br><br><br><br><br><br>		Print/export<br>	<br><br><br>Download as PDFPrintable version<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia<br><br><br>The global carbon dioxide partitioning (atmospheric CO2, land sink, and ocean sink) averaged over the historical period (1900–2020)<br>The airborne fraction is a scaling factor defined as the ratio of the annual increase in atmospheric CO2 to the CO2 emissions from human sources.[1] It represents the proportion of human emitted CO2 that remains in the atmosphere. Observations over the past six decades show that the airborne fraction has remained relatively stable at around 45%.[2] This indicates that the land and ocean's capacity to absorb CO2 has kept up with the rise in human CO2 emissions, despite the occurrence of notable interannual and sub-decadal variability, which is predominantly driven by the land's ability to absorb CO2. There is some evidence for a recent increase in airborne fraction, which would imply a faster increase in atmospheric CO2 for a given rate of human fossil-fuel burning.[3] Changes in carbon sinks can affect the airborne fraction as well.   <br><br>Discussion about the trend of airborne fraction[edit]<br>Anthropogenic CO2 that is released into the atmosphere is partitioned into three components: approximately 45% remains in the atmosphere (referred to as the airborne fraction), while about 24% and 31% are absorbed by the oceans (ocean sink) and terrestrial biosphere (land sink), respectively.[4] If the airborne fraction increases, this indicates that a smaller amount of the CO2 released by humans is being absorbed by land and ocean sinks, due to factors such as warming oceans or thawing permafrost. As a result, a greater proportion of anthropogenic emissions remains in the atmosphere, thereby accelerating the rate of climate change. This has implications for future projections of atmospheric CO2 levels, which must be adjusted to account for this trend.[5] The question of whether the airborne fraction is rising, remaining steady at approximately 45%, or declining remains a matter of debate. Resolving this question is critical for comprehending the global carbon cycle and has relevance for policymakers and the general public. <br>The quantity “airborne fraction” is termed by Charles David Keeling in 1973, and studies conducted in the 1970s and 1980s defined airborne fraction from cumulative carbon inventory changes as,[5]<br><br><br><br><br>A<br><br>F<br><br>F<br>F<br><br><br>=<br><br><br><br><br>d<br>C<br>(<br>t<br>)<br><br><br>d<br>t
