# Query `98`

## Original Question

*I need US monthly climate data for the years 1992-2012. It would be great to get down to a county level, but by state would be just fine. Every site that I go to inevitably kicks me to the NCDC, but I cannot make sense of their data.

For example: the .csv sample data for GHCN Monthly Summaries lists EMXT (extreme maximum temperature) for each month of 2010 in Petersburg, ND. July had an EMXT of 317. I've been through the documentation, but I can't figure out what that number is supposed to mean. I know it wasn't 317F or C in ND at any point. Did they add all the temps up? Was it around 10C every day of July 2010? But why would you do that? The .PDF data looks like actual temperatures, but I need a lot of data: .CSV is ideal; .PDF is really not useable for the amount of data I am going to manipulate.

What am I missing? Or is there another way to get this data?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.8000
P_10: 0.5000
P_25: 0.2000
P_50: 0.1000
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.2000
recall_5: 0.8000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.8688
ndcg_cut_10: 0.9818
ndcg_cut_25: 0.9818
ndcg_cut_50: 0.9818
ndcg_cut_100: 0.9818
map_cut_1: 0.2000
map_cut_5: 0.8000
map_cut_10: 0.9429
map_cut_25: 0.9429
map_cut_50: 0.9429
map_cut_100: 0.9429
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) ncdc_data/docu5.txt
> MXSD - Maximum snow depth reported during month. Values are given in mm or inches as per users<br>preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in inches on monthly form PDF<br>file. <br>TPCP - Total precipitation amount for the month. Values are given in mm (to tenths) or inches (to<br>hundredths) as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in<br>inches on monthly form PDF file. <br>TSNW - Total snow fall amount for the month. Values are given in mm or inches as per users preference<br>settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in inches on monthly form PDF file. <br>Air Temperature (All units in Fahrenheit on PDF monthly form and either Fahrenheit or Celsius on CSV or<br>text output as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output.)<br>EMNT - Extreme minimum temperature <br>EMXT - Extreme maximum temperature <br>MMNT - Monthly mean minimum temperature <br>MMXT - Monthly mean maximum temperature <br>MNTM – Monthly mean temperature <br>Concerning derivation: All observations/elements listed above are derived from another within the<br>GHCND dataset as follows (see GHCND documentation for further details):<br>= derived from TMAX and/or TMIN (daily maximum and minimum temperature)<br>=derived from PRCP (daily precipitation total)<br>=derived from SNOW (daily snowfall total)<br>Additional information on the GHCN-Daily data, from which the GHCN-Monthly data are derived, is

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) ncdc_data/docu1.txt
> GHCND (Global Historical Climatology Network)-Monthly Summaries<br>NOTE: English units are displayed on pdf output format; Either Metric or standard English units on csv<br>or txt output formats depending on user specification.<br>I. Description<br>GHCND (Global Historical Climatology Network)-Monthly Summaries is a database that addresses the<br>critical need for historical monthly temperature, precipitation, and snow records over global land areas.<br>The values are derived from the GHCN-Daily database which is a composite of climate records from<br>numerous sources that were merged and then subjected to a suite of quality assurance reviews. The<br>GHCND-Monthly Summaries database includes 18 meteorological elements (see Table A below for<br>complete list) including temperature (monthly means and extremes), precipitation (monthly totals,<br>extremes and number of days various amount thresholds are met), snowfall, maximum snow depth, and<br>degree days.<br>The GHCND-Monthly Summaries database, like its daily counterpart from which it was derived, contains<br>observations of one or more of the above elements at more than 100,000 stations that are distributed<br>across all continents.<br>Some of the data provided here are based on data exchanged under the World Meteorological<br>Organization (WMO) World Weather Watch Program according to WMO Resolution 40 (Cg-XII). This<br>allows WMO member countries to place restrictions on the use or re-export of their data for commercial<br>purposes outside of the receiving country. Those countries' data summaries and products which are<br>available here are intended for free and unrestricted use in research, education, and other noncommercial activities. For non-U.S. locations data, the data or any derived product shall not be provided<br>to other users or be used for the re-export of commercial services.<br>II. Format/Observation Definitions

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) ncdc_data/docu2.txt
> II. Format/Observation Definitions<br>(Note: the term ‘element’ is used throughout this documentation and refers to an individual meteorological/climatological<br>measurement or statistical value such as temperature, precipitation (amount), etc.)<br>Users are given the choice between the following three delivery formats:<br>1) GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries Form-Portable Document Format (PDF) output gives monthly<br>values for 18 elements (see Table A).<br>2) Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Form-Output is ASCII text file and user is given<br>the choice whether to include flags (attributes), station name or geographic location in data<br>records. The user can define which of the observations (values) listed in Table A (below) to<br>include in data records.<br>3) Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Spreadsheet-Options are same as #2 above but<br>output is given as CSV file for use in spreadsheet applications.<br>A. Data observations/values<br>Each record represents all selected observations (i.e. elements) available for a given station-month. The<br>initial section of each record is ordered as follows with the following definitions:<br>STATION (17 characters) is the station identification code. Please see<br>http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/ghcn/daily/ghcnd-stations.txt<br>for a complete list of stations and their metadata.<br>STATION_NAME (max 50 characters) is the name of the station (usually city/airport name). This is an<br>optional output field.<br>GEOGRAPHIC_LOCATION (31 characters) is the latitude (decimated degrees w/northern hemisphere

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) ncdc_data/docu4.txt
> the Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Form and all are also included on the GHCN-Daily<br>Monthly Summaries Form-Portable Document Format (PDF).<br>Note: 9’s in a field (e.g.9999) indicate missing data or data that has not been received.<br>Computed<br>CLDD - Cooling degree days. These are using a 65 degree Fahrenheit base and given as a monthly total.<br>Values are given in whole degrees Fahrenheit or tenths of degrees Celsius as per users preference<br>settings on standard or metric unit output. Values are given in Fahrenheit on monthly form PDF file.<br>DP10 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 1.0 inch of precipitation <br>DP05 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 0.5 inch of precipitation <br>DP01 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 0.1 inch of precipitation <br>HTDD - Heating degree days. These use a 65 degree Fahrenheit base and are given as a monthly total.<br>Values are given in whole degrees Fahrenheit or tenths of degrees Celsius as per users preference<br>settings on standard or metric unit output. Values are given in Fahrenheit on monthly form PDF file.<br>DT00 - Number days in month with minimum temperature less than or equal to 0.0 F <br>DT32 - Number days in month with minimum temperature less than or equal to 32.0 F <br>DT90 - Number days in month with maximum temperature greater than or equal 90.0 F <br>DX32 - Number days in month with maximum temperature less than or equal to 32.0 F <br>Precipitation<br>EMXP - Extreme maximum daily precipitation total within month. Values are given in mm (to tenths) or<br>inches (to hundredths) as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are<br>given in inches on monthly form PDF file.

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) propagation_of_sound_after_lightning/what_causes_thunder_htm4.txt
> I live in the Old Capital of Fiji which is Levuka. There was a thunderstorm that struck levuka that I have come across in my life and was really scary. As we celebrate easter on Friday the weather was cloudy and you can't see any sky and I was telling my husband, see even everything around us respects that today we are remembering the death of our saviour and every living things respect. And on sunday the resurrection of Jesus. Everything is like what the bible says but not that strong. This the first time for me to see and experience a thunderstorm, because most of the time we experience hurricanes. I was really scared and started reading the bible and everything was like the end of the world. Makes me search for things that can be done in this kind of situation.This thunder is like an earthquake again. It was so close and I see people running around and enjoying the weather.    <br><br><br>            anon71373        <br><br>            March 18, 2010        <br>No such thing as heat lightning. Sound does not travel as far as light. A far away lightning storm will create what people call heat lightning (could be 50 miles away). Common misconception. You see lightning flashes but you don't hear thunder. Happens all the time. Usually happens during clear nights where the light can travel far, and the distant thunderstorm cloud cannot be seen.      <br><br><br>            anon68668        <br><br>            March 3, 2010        <br>just five minutes ago in my town, there were small chunks of hail falling. then afterward, there was thunder.    <br><br><br>            anon64881        <br><br>            February 10, 2010        <br>we have thunder rain and lighting right now.    <br><br><br>            anon64679        <br><br>            February 8, 2010        <br>why does lighting hit the trees on so many occasions?    <br><br><br>            anon56927        <br><br>            December 18, 2009        <br>we had thunder but no lightning, why is that? No rain either.    <br><br><br>            anon43686        <br><br>            yesterday        <br>the lightning just shot out in different directions and didn't happen to pass by where you were.    <br><br><br>            anon40744        <br><br>            August 10, 2009        <br>we had thunder today --all day-- and not one time did we have lightning! Explain that one please!    <br><br><br>            anon35647        <br><br>            July 6, 2009        <br>its heat lightning    <br><br><br>            anon2628        <br><br>            July 19, 2007        <br>It's because the thunder is too far away too be heard.  Thunder always follows lighting    <br><br><br>            anon2470        <br><br>            July 12, 2007        <br>I live in the Caribbean and sometime lightening flashes but no sound of thunder why is this?    <br>Post your comments<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Please enter the following code:<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Login:<br><br><br><br>Forgot password?<br><br><br>Register:


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 3, ncdc_data/docu4.txt
> the Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Form and all are also included on the GHCN-Daily<br>Monthly Summaries Form-Portable Document Format (PDF).<br>Note: 9’s in a field (e.g.9999) indicate missing data or data that has not been received.<br>Computed<br>CLDD - Cooling degree days. These are using a 65 degree Fahrenheit base and given as a monthly total.<br>Values are given in whole degrees Fahrenheit or tenths of degrees Celsius as per users preference<br>settings on standard or metric unit output. Values are given in Fahrenheit on monthly form PDF file.<br>DP10 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 1.0 inch of precipitation <br>DP05 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 0.5 inch of precipitation <br>DP01 - Number of days in month with greater than or equal to 0.1 inch of precipitation <br>HTDD - Heating degree days. These use a 65 degree Fahrenheit base and are given as a monthly total.<br>Values are given in whole degrees Fahrenheit or tenths of degrees Celsius as per users preference<br>settings on standard or metric unit output. Values are given in Fahrenheit on monthly form PDF file.<br>DT00 - Number days in month with minimum temperature less than or equal to 0.0 F <br>DT32 - Number days in month with minimum temperature less than or equal to 32.0 F <br>DT90 - Number days in month with maximum temperature greater than or equal 90.0 F <br>DX32 - Number days in month with maximum temperature less than or equal to 32.0 F <br>Precipitation<br>EMXP - Extreme maximum daily precipitation total within month. Values are given in mm (to tenths) or<br>inches (to hundredths) as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are<br>given in inches on monthly form PDF file.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, ncdc_data/docu5.txt
> MXSD - Maximum snow depth reported during month. Values are given in mm or inches as per users<br>preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in inches on monthly form PDF<br>file. <br>TPCP - Total precipitation amount for the month. Values are given in mm (to tenths) or inches (to<br>hundredths) as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in<br>inches on monthly form PDF file. <br>TSNW - Total snow fall amount for the month. Values are given in mm or inches as per users preference<br>settings on metric or standard unit output. Values are given in inches on monthly form PDF file. <br>Air Temperature (All units in Fahrenheit on PDF monthly form and either Fahrenheit or Celsius on CSV or<br>text output as per users preference settings on metric or standard unit output.)<br>EMNT - Extreme minimum temperature <br>EMXT - Extreme maximum temperature <br>MMNT - Monthly mean minimum temperature <br>MMXT - Monthly mean maximum temperature <br>MNTM – Monthly mean temperature <br>Concerning derivation: All observations/elements listed above are derived from another within the<br>GHCND dataset as follows (see GHCND documentation for further details):<br>= derived from TMAX and/or TMIN (daily maximum and minimum temperature)<br>=derived from PRCP (daily precipitation total)<br>=derived from SNOW (daily snowfall total)<br>Additional information on the GHCN-Daily data, from which the GHCN-Monthly data are derived, is

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 2, ncdc_data/docu2.txt
> II. Format/Observation Definitions<br>(Note: the term ‘element’ is used throughout this documentation and refers to an individual meteorological/climatological<br>measurement or statistical value such as temperature, precipitation (amount), etc.)<br>Users are given the choice between the following three delivery formats:<br>1) GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries Form-Portable Document Format (PDF) output gives monthly<br>values for 18 elements (see Table A).<br>2) Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Form-Output is ASCII text file and user is given<br>the choice whether to include flags (attributes), station name or geographic location in data<br>records. The user can define which of the observations (values) listed in Table A (below) to<br>include in data records.<br>3) Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Spreadsheet-Options are same as #2 above but<br>output is given as CSV file for use in spreadsheet applications.<br>A. Data observations/values<br>Each record represents all selected observations (i.e. elements) available for a given station-month. The<br>initial section of each record is ordered as follows with the following definitions:<br>STATION (17 characters) is the station identification code. Please see<br>http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/ghcn/daily/ghcnd-stations.txt<br>for a complete list of stations and their metadata.<br>STATION_NAME (max 50 characters) is the name of the station (usually city/airport name). This is an<br>optional output field.<br>GEOGRAPHIC_LOCATION (31 characters) is the latitude (decimated degrees w/northern hemisphere

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 1, ncdc_data/docu1.txt
> GHCND (Global Historical Climatology Network)-Monthly Summaries<br>NOTE: English units are displayed on pdf output format; Either Metric or standard English units on csv<br>or txt output formats depending on user specification.<br>I. Description<br>GHCND (Global Historical Climatology Network)-Monthly Summaries is a database that addresses the<br>critical need for historical monthly temperature, precipitation, and snow records over global land areas.<br>The values are derived from the GHCN-Daily database which is a composite of climate records from<br>numerous sources that were merged and then subjected to a suite of quality assurance reviews. The<br>GHCND-Monthly Summaries database includes 18 meteorological elements (see Table A below for<br>complete list) including temperature (monthly means and extremes), precipitation (monthly totals,<br>extremes and number of days various amount thresholds are met), snowfall, maximum snow depth, and<br>degree days.<br>The GHCND-Monthly Summaries database, like its daily counterpart from which it was derived, contains<br>observations of one or more of the above elements at more than 100,000 stations that are distributed<br>across all continents.<br>Some of the data provided here are based on data exchanged under the World Meteorological<br>Organization (WMO) World Weather Watch Program according to WMO Resolution 40 (Cg-XII). This<br>allows WMO member countries to place restrictions on the use or re-export of their data for commercial<br>purposes outside of the receiving country. Those countries' data summaries and products which are<br>available here are intended for free and unrestricted use in research, education, and other noncommercial activities. For non-U.S. locations data, the data or any derived product shall not be provided<br>to other users or be used for the re-export of commercial services.<br>II. Format/Observation Definitions

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 6, ncdc_data/docu3.txt
> values  0, southern hemisphere values < 0), longitude (decimated degrees w/western hemisphere<br>values < 0, eastern hemisphere values  0) and elevation above mean sea level (thousandths of meters).<br>This is an optional output field.<br>DATE is the year of the record (4 digits) followed by month (2 digits) and day (2 digits). For these<br>monthly files, all days will be encoded as “01”.<br>B. Observations (values) and flags (attributes)<br>Following this initial section of the record, all selected observations and flags are given in the following<br>order:<br>Observation(s) | Missing Flag | Consecutive Missing Flag | repeat for next observation/element (when<br>more than one element is selected), where:<br>Observation(s) is/are synonymous with elements or values, and defined in Table A below. 9’s in a field<br>(e.g.9999) indicate missing data or data that has not been received.<br>Missing Flag is defined as total number of days observation/element is missing in that month. This can<br>be taken as a measure of quality or completeness as the higher the number of days sampled in the<br>month, the more representative the value is for the entire month.<br>Consecutive Missing Flag is defined as the maximum number of consecutive days in the month that an<br>observation/element is missing.<br>Note: The 2 flags listed above are optional on the Custom GHCN-Daily Monthly Summaries ASCII Form<br>and ASCII spreadsheet.<br>Table A (observations or values)<br>All 18 observation/element values are defined below. Each of these may be included (or excluded) on
