# Query `59`

## Original Question

*I'm confused by what exactly a CDL file is and what its purpose is. Unidata specifies the syntax of such a CDL file in its netCDF documentation.

Questions:
Are CDL files designed to be opened by a simple text editor like Notepad or gedit? Or should I use some other tool to open it?

What is its purpose and how is it used?*

## gpt4 Reasoning

```markdown
### Essential Problem

The primary concern here is understanding the nature, purpose, and usage of CDL (Common Data Language) files, particularly in the context of Unidata's netCDF (Network Common Data Form) documentation. The questions revolve around whether these files can be opened with basic text editors like Notepad or gedit and what their specific purpose and application are.

### Understanding CDL Files

**1. Nature and Purpose of CDL Files:**

CDL, or Common Data Language, is a textual representation of the data structures and metadata within netCDF files. netCDF, which stands for Network Common Data Form, is a set of software libraries and machine-independent data formats that support the creation, access, and sharing of array-oriented scientific data. CDL is part of the netCDF ecosystem and is used to describe the format and content of data within netCDF files in a readable form.

The purpose of CDL is twofold:
- **To facilitate documentation:** CDL provides a human-readable way to document the structure and metadata of netCDF files, making it easier for individuals to understand the data's layout without needing to parse the binary netCDF file directly.
- **To enable creation and modification:** Through CDL, users can define or modify the structure of a netCDF file in a text format. This can then be converted into a binary netCDF file using tools provided by Unidata, such as `ncgen`. Conversely, the structure of existing netCDF files can be exported into CDL format using `ncdump`, facilitating easy sharing, modification, and documentation.

**2. Opening CDL Files:**

Given that CDL files are essentially text files, they can indeed be opened, edited, and viewed using simple text editors such as Notepad, gedit, or any other text editor of choice. This accessibility is by design, as one of the aims of CDL is to make the structure and metadata of netCDF data easily readable and modifiable by humans.

**3. Usage and Tools:**

In practice, CDL files are used in several ways:
- **Documentation:** Scientists and researchers can share CDL files as a form of documentation to describe the structure and metadata of their netCDF datasets.
- **Data Preparation:** Before creating netCDF files, users can define the desired structure and metadata in a CDL file, which can then be converted into a binary netCDF file using the `ncgen` tool.
- **Data Analysis and Sharing:** Researchers can use `ncdump` to generate CDL files from netCDF files to facilitate easier sharing, analysis, and understanding of the data structure and metadata.

### Conclusion

CDL files serve as a bridge between human-readable documentation and the binary world of netCDF data. They can be easily managed with basic text editors and are an essential tool in the netCDF ecosystem for documentation, data preparation, and sharing. Understanding how to work with CDL files, along with the tools Unidata provides for converting between CDL and binary netCDF formats, is crucial for anyone working with netCDF data.
```

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0600
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.3333
recall_5: 0.3333
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.6667
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_25: 0.5745
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6701
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6701
map_cut_1: 0.3333
map_cut_5: 0.3333
map_cut_10: 0.3333
map_cut_25: 0.3651
map_cut_50: 0.3996
map_cut_100: 0.3996
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) cdf_file/washington2.txt
> <p<ttfloat time(time);<br<br></tt</p<br><br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<tttime:units = "hours";</tt</div<br></div<br><br><p<tt//global attributes:</tt</p<br><br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<tt:x_min = -180.f;<br<br> :x_max = 180.f;<br<br> :x_units = "degrees_east";<br<br> :x_label = "longitude";<br<br></tt<br><p<tt:y_min = -90.f;<br<br> :y_max = 90.f;<br<br> :y_units = "degrees_north";<br<br> :y_label = "latitude";<br<br></tt</p<br><br><p<tt:z_label = "level";<br<br> :t_label = "time";</tt</p<br></div<br><br><ttdata:</tt<br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<ttlevel = 1000, 850, 700, 500, 300<br>;<br<br> time = 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 ;</tt</div<br></blockquote<br><br><pThe command <a href="" "http:="" www.unidata.ucar.edu="" packages="" netcdf="" guide_12.html#sec93"=""`ncgen'</a<br>is the inverse of `ncdump'; it converts an ASCII CDL file to a<br>binary netCDF file. For example</p<br><br><blockquote<ttncgen -o sample.nc sample.cdl</tt</blockquote<br> <p<br>converts the CDL file <tt`sample.cdl'</tt to the netCDF file<br><tt`sample.nc'</tt. The easiest way to create a netCDF file is to<br>(1) write all the header data (the name, dimensions, variable and<br>attribute specifications, and the values of any coordinate<br>variables) to a CDL file, (2) convert the CDL file to a netCDF file<br>using ncgen, and (3) continue writing the main data arrays to this<br>netCDF file. <br></p<br><pThe following example shows how this approach can be implemented<br>in a FORTRAN program. The data set created is the one associated<br>with the preceding CDL file. Everything except the data for the<br>variables <tt`A'</tt and <tt`time'</tt are written to the<br>original CDL file. This file is then converted to a netCDF file by<br>`ncgen' and opened for further data input with <a href="" "http:="" www.unidata.ucar.edu="" packages="" netcdf="" guide_7.html#sec42"=""`ncopn'</a.<br>The data for <tt`A'</tt and <tt`time'</tt are subsequently<br>written directly to the open netCDF file in a manner similar to<br>that which would occur if output was periodically generated during<br>a numerical simulation. The data written to <tt`A'</tt in this<br>example are, however, completely artifical. Note how the use of the<br>"UNLIMITED" option for the time dimension allows data to be written<br>at an arbitrary number of output times.</p<br><br><pre<tt     program netCDF_example1

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) cd4_file/NetCDF4_1.txt
> Developed byUCARLatest release4.9.2[1]  (17 March 2023; 12 months ago (17 March 2023)) Type of formatscientific binary dataExtended fromCDFHDFWebsitewww.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/ <br>NetCDF (Network Common Data Form) is a set of software libraries and self-describing, machine-independent data formats that support the creation, access, and sharing of array-oriented scientific data. The project homepage[2] is

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) VARIANT_IDs_in_CMIP6/modelers_html3.txt
> Data managers can aslo register errata using the ES-DOC Errata Command Line Client<br>if they wish to do so.<br>Further information about the service is available in the Errata Service Documentation.<br>2. Experiment design<br>The CMIP6 protocol and experiments are described in a special issue<br>of Geoscientific Model Development with an overview of the overall design and scientific<br>strategy provided in the lead article of that issue by Eyring et al. (2016)<br><br><br>Each model participating in CMIP6 must contribute results from the four DECK<br> experiments (piControl, AMIP, abrupt4xCO2, and 1pctCO2) and the CMIP6 historical<br> simulation. See Eyring et al. (2016) where the experiment protocol<br> is documented. These experiments are considered to define the ongoing (slowly<br> evolving) “CMIP Activity” and are directly overseen by the CMIP Panel<br><br><br>In addition to the DECK and historical simulations, each modeling group may choose<br> to contribute to any CMIP6 endorsed MIPs of interest, but<br> for each MIP component, results must be provided from the full subset of “tier 1”<br> experiments. See the GMD Special CMIP6 Issue for descriptions<br> of each MIP and its experiment specifications. Each endorsed MIP<br> is managed by an independent committee. The MIPs are identified as separate<br> “CMIP6 Activities”, but their coordination and their endorsement as part of CMIP6<br> is the responsibility of the CMIP Panel. The process by which MIP<br> activities become endorsed is described here and the criteria<br> for endorsement are listed in Table 1 of Eyring et al. (2016).<br> The official names of the currently endorsed CMIP6 MIPs are recorded in a “json” file<br><br><br>When called for by the experiment protocol, standard forcing data sets<br> should be used. Any deviation from the standard forcing must be clearly documented.<br><br><br>Further documentation about CMIP6 experiments will be available from ES-DOC,<br> and the reference controlled vocabularies used to define and identify these experiments<br> are available in a “json” file and can be displayed in table form<br><br><br>3. Forcing data sets<br>In CMIP6 all models should adopt the same forcing datasets (and boundary conditions).<br>Experts contacted by the CMIP Panel have prepared the forcing datasets, and a new<br>“input4MIPs” activity has been initiated by PCMDI to encourage adherence to many<br>of the same data standards imposed on obs4MIPs data and CMIP data. These datasets<br>are being collected into a curated archive at PCMDI. All conforming datasets can<br>be downloaded via the Earth System Grid Federation’s input4MIPs CoG.<br>Any dataset not yet conforming to the input4MIPs specifications can be obtained<br>from the individual preparing the dataset, as indicated in the input4MIPs summary sheet.<br>The input4MIPs summary sheet separately lists the CMIP6<br>datasets needed for the DECK and historical simulations and the datasets needed<br>for the CMIP6-endorsed MIP experiments. The summary provides contact information,<br>documentation of the data, and citation requirements. Included in the collection<br>are, for example, datasets specifying emissions and concentrations of various atmospheric<br>species, sea surface temperatures and sea ice (for AMIP), solar variability, and<br>land cover characteristics. The current version of the official CMIP Panel forcing<br>dataset collection is 6.2. Users of these datasets should consult the input4MIPs summary sheet<br>before configuring and beginning any new simulation to ensure that they are using<br>the latest versions available.<br>Some of the endorsed-MIP forcing datasets are still in preparation, but should<br>be available soon. Any changes made to a released dataset will be documented in<br>the summary.<br>4. Model output fields<br>The CMIP6 Data Request defines the variables that should<br>be archived for each experiment and specifies the time intervals for which they<br>should be reported. It provides much of the variable-specific metadata that should<br>be stored along with the data. It also provides tools for estimating the data storage<br>requirements for CMIP6.<br>Additional information about the data request is available at https://cmip6dr.github.io/Data_Request_Home<br>5. Model output requirements<br>CMIP6 model output requirements are similar to those in CMIP5, but changes have<br>been made to accommodate the more complex structure of CMIP6 and its data request.<br>Some changes will make it easier for users to find the data they need and will<br>enable new services to be established providing, for example, model and experiment<br>documentation and citation information.<br>As in CMIP5, all CMIP6 output will be stored in netCDF files with one variable<br>stored per file. The requested output fields can be determined as described above,<br>and as in CMIP5, the data must be “cmorized” (i.e., written in conformance with<br>all the CMIP standards). The CMIP standards build on the CF-conventions,<br>which define metadata that provide a description of the variables and their spatial<br>and temporal properties. This facilitates analysis of the data by users who can<br>read and interpret data from all models in the same way.<br>As described in section 6, it is recommended,<br>but not required, that the CMOR software library<br>be used to rewrite model output in conformance with the standards. In any case<br>to ensure that a critical subset of the requirements have been met, a CMIP data<br>checker (“PrePARE”) will be applied<br>before data are placed in the CMIP6 data archive.<br>The CMIP6 data requirements are defined and discussed in the following documents:<br><br>Definition of CMIP6 netCDF global attributes<br>Reference “controlled vocabularies” (CV’s) for CMIP6<br>Specifications for file names, directory structures,<br> and CMIP6 Data Reference Syntax (DRS)<br>Specifications for output file content, structure, and metadata are available in draft google doc.  Use of CMOR3 will ensure compliance.<br>Guidance on grid requirements<br>Information on pressure levels requested<br>Guidance on time-averaging (with masking)<br><br>Additional metadata requirements are imposed on a variable by variable basis as<br>specified in the CMIP6 Data Request. Many of these are recognized<br>by CMOR (through input via the CMIP6 CMOR Tables), which will<br>ensure compliance.<br>Note that in the above, controlled vocabularies (CV’s) play a key role in ensuring<br>uniformity in the description of data sets across all models. For all but variable-specific<br>information, reference CV’s are being maintained by PCMDI against which<br>all quality assurance checks will be performed. These CV’s will be relied on in<br>constructing file names and directory structures, and they will enable faceted<br>searches of the CMIP6 archive as called for in the search requirements document.<br>Additional, variable-specific CVs are part of the CMIP6 Data Request.<br>These CV’s are structured in a way that makes clear relationships between certain<br>items appearing in separate CV’s. For example, the CV for model names (“source_id”)<br>indicates which institutions are authorized to run each model, and the complete

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) cd4_file/NetCDF4_17.txt
> applications, and for general scientific data exchange. To quote from their site:[26]<br><br>"NetCDF (network Common Data Form) is a set of interfaces for array-oriented data access and a freely-distributed collection of data access libraries for C, Fortran, C++, Java, and other languages. The netCDF libraries support a machine-independent format for representing scientific data. Together, the interfaces, libraries, and format support the creation, access, and sharing of scientific data."<br>Conventions[edit]<br>Main article: Climate and Forecast Metadata Con

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) cd4_file/netcdf4_python4_15.txt
> ump via subprocess to create CDL<br>text representation of Dataset. Requires ncdump<br>to be installed and in $PATH.<br>coordvars: include coordinate variable data (via ncdump -c). Default False<br>data: if True, write out variable data (Default False).<br>outfile: If not None, file to output ncdump to. Default is to return a string.<br><br><br><br><br>class Dimension<br>(...)<br><br><br>A netCDF Dimension is used to describe the coordinates of a Variable.<br>See Dimension for more details.<br>The current


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 28, cdf_file/washington3.txt
> <pre<tt     program netCDF_example1<br>c<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c    Declare and set constants, parameters and scratch variables<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c<br>      implicit none<br>c<br>c       UNIX include statement to include standard netCDF parameter<br>c   names, such as NCWRITE. (path is for UW Unix machines)<br>c<br>      include '/usr/local/include/netcdf.inc'<br>c<br>c   Netcdf file declaration<br>c<br>      integer cdfid     ! ID for the netCDF file to be created<br>      character () cdf_out    ! Name of the netCDF output file<br>      parameter(cdf_out='example.nc')<br>c<br>c       Declare and set integer values for the netCDF dimensions <br>c<br>      integer <br>     &amp;    nlon          ! number of points in the 1st dimension;<br>     &amp;   ,nlat          ! number of points in the 2nd dimension;<br>     &amp;   ,nlevel        ! number of points in the 3rd dimension;<br>      parameter(nlon = 101, nlat = 101, nlevel = 5)<br><br>      real<br>     &amp;    level(nlevel),    ! values of the z-coordinate;<br>     &amp;    A(nlon, nlat, nlevel) ! 3D data array;<br>      data level/1000, 850, 700, 500, 300/<br><br>      integer <br>     &amp;    start(4)      ! for indexing the netCDF data array;<br>     &amp;   ,count(4)      ! for indexing the netCDF data array;<br>      real actual_time<br>      data<br>     &amp;    start /1, 1, 1, 1/, count /nlon, nlat, nlevel, 1/<br>c      <br>c       NetCDF IDs for variable that written out every time step<br>c<br>      integer <br>     &amp;    idtime        ! ID for the time coordinate variable;<br>     &amp;   ,idA           ! ID for main data array, `A';<br>c<br>c       Declare scratch variables<br>c<br>      integer i, j, k, time_index, ierr<br>      character80 command<br>c<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c   Create the CDL file that matches the preceding example,<br>c       writing the result to file `my.cdl'<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c<br>      open(unit=7, name='my.cdl')<br>c

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, cdf_file/washington2.txt
> <p<ttfloat time(time);<br<br></tt</p<br><br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<tttime:units = "hours";</tt</div<br></div<br><br><p<tt//global attributes:</tt</p<br><br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<tt:x_min = -180.f;<br<br> :x_max = 180.f;<br<br> :x_units = "degrees_east";<br<br> :x_label = "longitude";<br<br></tt<br><p<tt:y_min = -90.f;<br<br> :y_max = 90.f;<br<br> :y_units = "degrees_north";<br<br> :y_label = "latitude";<br<br></tt</p<br><br><p<tt:z_label = "level";<br<br> :t_label = "time";</tt</p<br></div<br><br><ttdata:</tt<br><div style="margin-left: 2em"<ttlevel = 1000, 850, 700, 500, 300<br>;<br<br> time = 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 ;</tt</div<br></blockquote<br><br><pThe command <a href="" "http:="" www.unidata.ucar.edu="" packages="" netcdf="" guide_12.html#sec93"=""`ncgen'</a<br>is the inverse of `ncdump'; it converts an ASCII CDL file to a<br>binary netCDF file. For example</p<br><br><blockquote<ttncgen -o sample.nc sample.cdl</tt</blockquote<br> <p<br>converts the CDL file <tt`sample.cdl'</tt to the netCDF file<br><tt`sample.nc'</tt. The easiest way to create a netCDF file is to<br>(1) write all the header data (the name, dimensions, variable and<br>attribute specifications, and the values of any coordinate<br>variables) to a CDL file, (2) convert the CDL file to a netCDF file<br>using ncgen, and (3) continue writing the main data arrays to this<br>netCDF file. <br></p<br><pThe following example shows how this approach can be implemented<br>in a FORTRAN program. The data set created is the one associated<br>with the preceding CDL file. Everything except the data for the<br>variables <tt`A'</tt and <tt`time'</tt are written to the<br>original CDL file. This file is then converted to a netCDF file by<br>`ncgen' and opened for further data input with <a href="" "http:="" www.unidata.ucar.edu="" packages="" netcdf="" guide_7.html#sec42"=""`ncopn'</a.<br>The data for <tt`A'</tt and <tt`time'</tt are subsequently<br>written directly to the open netCDF file in a manner similar to<br>that which would occur if output was periodically generated during<br>a numerical simulation. The data written to <tt`A'</tt in this<br>example are, however, completely artifical. Note how the use of the<br>"UNLIMITED" option for the time dimension allows data to be written<br>at an arbitrary number of output times.</p<br><br><pre<tt     program netCDF_example1

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 20, cdf_file/washington4.txt
> c       Write the netCDF file name<br>c<br>      write(7,) 'netcdf mine{'<br>c<br>c       Write the dimensions<br>c<br>      write(7,) 'dimensions:'<br>      write(7,) 'lon=', nlon, ';'<br>      write(7,) 'lat=', nlat, ';'<br>      write(7,) 'level=', nlevel, ';'<br>      write(7,) 'time=UNLIMITED;'<br>c<br>c       Write the variable declarations along with<br>c       their attributes<br>c<br>      write(7,) 'variables:'<br>      write(7,) 'float A(time,level,lat,lon);'<br>      write(7,) 'A:units="meters/second";'<br>      write(7,) 'float level(level);'<br>      write(7,) 'level:units="millibars";'<br>      write(7,) 'float time(time);'<br>      write(7,) 'time:units="hours";'<br>c<br>c       Write the global attributes<br>c<br>      write(7,) ':x_min=-180.f;'<br>      write(7,) ':x_max=180.f;'<br>      write(7,) ':x_units="degrees_east";'<br>      write(7,) ':x_label="longitude";'<br>      write(7,) ':y_min=-90.f;'<br>      write(7,) ':y_max=90.f;'<br>      write(7,) ':y_units="degrees_north";'<br>      write(7,) ':y_label="latitude";'<br>      write(7,) ':z_label="level";'<br>      write(7,) ':t_label="time";'<br>c<br>c       Begin writing the data<br>c<br>      write(7,) 'data:'<br>      write(7,) 'level='<br>      do i = 1, nlevel-1<br>         write(7, ) level(i), ','<br>      enddo<br>      write(7, ) level(nlevel), ';'<br>      write(7,) '}'<br>c<br>      close (unit=7)<br>c<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c   Convert the CDL file `my.cdl' to a netCDF file using ncgen<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c<br>      write(command, ) 'ncgen -o ', cdf_out, ' my.cdl'<br>      call system(command)<br>c<br>c     -----------------------------------------------------------------<br>c       Write the remaining data, which consists of the values of
