# Query `71`

## Original Question

*I read that the acidic character, or, better, persilicic character of a rock is determined by a content of more than 65% SiO2
.

A rock is defined, by the texts available to me, as mesosilicic (or intermediate) when its SiO2
 content is contained in the interval 52%−65%
, while it is called hyposilicic (or basic) when SiO2<52%
.

If I correctly understand the SiO2
 contained in the rock as a part of a mineral other than pure SiO2
, for example, the Si2O4
 part of anorthite CaAl2Si2O8
, is calculated into the quantity of total silica. What I cannot understand at all, is whether mass or volume is taken into account.*

## gpt4 Reasoning

```markdown
The essential problem you've presented revolves around how the silica (SiO2) content in rocks is quantified for the purpose of classifying rocks as persilicic, mesosilicic, or hyposilicic. Specifically, your question is about whether this quantification is based on mass (weight) or volume of the silica content, especially when the silica is part of a mineral compound such as in anorthite (CaAl2Si2O8), rather than being present as pure silica.

To address this question, let's break it down step by step:

1. **Understanding Silica Content in Rocks**: Silica content in rocks is a critical factor in classifying rocks because it significantly influences the rock's physical and chemical properties. Silica is often present in rocks in the form of minerals like quartz, feldspars (which include anorthite), and silicates.

2. **The Composition of Minerals**: Minerals like anorthite have a specific chemical formula (CaAl2Si2O8) that includes silica (SiO2) in a combined form. The presence of silica within these minerals contributes to the overall silica content of the rock.

3. **Quantifying Silica Content**: When quantifying silica content for classification purposes, the focus is on the proportion of silica within the total composition of the rock. This proportion influences the rock's classification as persilicic, mesosilicic, or hyposilicic.

4. **Mass vs. Volume in Quantification**:
   - **Mass (Weight)**: Quantifying silica content by mass is the most common and practical approach in geological studies. This is because the mass of silica and other components can be precisely measured using scales, regardless of the volume they occupy. The mass percentage of SiO2 in the rock is calculated based on the total mass of the rock, which provides a direct way to classify the rock based on its silica content.
   - **Volume**: Measuring the volume of silica content in rocks is more challenging and less common. The volume of individual minerals and their silica content would be difficult to measure directly due to the fine-grained and interlocked nature of minerals in rocks. Additionally, the volume can be affected by factors such as porosity and the spatial arrangement of minerals, which do not directly impact the chemical composition.

5. **Conclusion**: Given these considerations, it is the mass (weight) of the SiO2 content that is taken into account when classifying rocks as persilicic, mesosilicic, or hyposilicic. This approach allows for a consistent and practical method to quantify the silica content in rocks, taking into consideration the silica present within mineral compounds as part of the rock's overall composition.

In summary, when classifying rocks based on their silica content, the focus is on the mass percentage of silica within the rock's total mass. This method provides a clear and practical basis for classification, regardless of whether the silica is present as pure SiO2 or part of a mineral compound like anorthite.
```

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 1.0000
P_10: 0.5000
P_25: 0.2000
P_50: 0.1000
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.2000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 0.2000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm4.txt
> Nosean - 6NaAlSiO4.Na2SO4<br>Haüyne - 6NaAlSiO4.(Na2,Ca)SO4<br><br><br>Perovskite - CaTiO3<br>Melanite - Ca2Fe+3Si3O12<br><br><br>Melilite - (Ca,Na)2(Mg,Fe+2,Al,Si)3O7<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Thus, if we find any of these minerals in a rock, with an exception that we'll see in a<br><br>      moment, then we can expect the rock to be silica undersaturated.<br>If we calculate a CIPW Norm (we'll see how to do this in lab) the normative minerals<br><br>      that occur in silica undersaturated rocks are nepheline and/or leucite.<br>Silica Oversaturated Rocks.  These rocks can be identified as possibly any rock<br><br>        that does not contain one of the minerals in the above list.  <br><br><br>        If we calculate a CIPW Norm, silica oversaturated rocks will contain normative quartz.<br><br><br>Silica Saturated Rocks.  These are rocks that contain just enough silica that<br><br>        quartz does not appear, and just enough silica that one of the silica undersaturated<br><br>        minerals does not appear.  In the CIPW norm, these rocks contain olivine, or<br><br>        hypersthene + olivine, but no quartz, no nepheline, and no leucite.<br><br><br>To get an idea about what silica saturation means, let's look at a simple silicate<br><br>    system - the system Mg2SiO4 - SiO2<br><br><br><br><br>Note how compositions between Fo and En will end their crystallization<br><br>    with only Fo olivine and enstatite.  These are SiO2-undersaturated.  <br><br>    compositions.  All compositions between En and SiO2 will end their<br><br>    crystallization with quartz and enstatite.  These are SiO2 - oversaturated<br><br>    compositions.  Note also that this can cause some confusion in volcanic rocks that<br><br>    do not complete their crystallization due to rapid cooling on the surface.  Let's<br><br>    imagine first a composition in the silica-undersaturated field.  Cooling to anywhere<br><br>    on the liquidus will result in the crystallization of Fo-rich olivine.  If this<br><br>    liquid containing olivine is erupted and the rest of the liquid quenches to a glass, then<br><br>    this will produce a rock with phenocrysts of olivine in a glassy groundmass.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Applying the criteria above for identifying silica undersaturated rocks would tell us<br><br>    that this is a silica-undersaturated rock, which we know to be correct.  Next, let's<br><br>    look at a silica oversaturated composition, such as one just to the left of the point<br><br>    labeled 'P' in the diagram.  If this liquid is cooled to the liquidus and olivine is<br><br>    allowed to crystallize, and is then quenched on the surface, it will contain phenocrysts<br><br>    of Fo-rich olivine in a glassy groundmass.  Applying the criteria above would suggest<br><br>    that this rock is also silica undersaturated, but we know it is not.  This<br><br>    illustrates one of the difficulties of applying any criteria of classification to volcanic<br><br>    rocks where incomplete crystallization/reaction has not allowed all minerals to form.<br><br><br><br><br>Alumina (Al2O3) Saturation<br>After silica,<br><br>    alumina is the second most abundant oxide constituent in igneous rocks.  Feldspars<br><br>    are, in general, the most abundant minerals that occur in igneous rocks.  Thus, the<br><br>    concept of alumina saturation is based on whether or not there is an excess or lack of Al<br><br>    to make up the feldspars.  Note that Al2O3 occurs in feldspars<br><br>    in a ratio of 1 Al to 1 Na, 1K, or 1 Ca:<br><br>KAlSi3O8  --  1/2K2O :<br><br>      1/2Al2O3<br>NaAlSi3O8  --  1/2Na2O :<br><br>      1/2Al2O3<br>CaAl2Si2O8 -- 1CaO : 1Al2O3<br><br>Three possible conditions exist.<br>If there is an excess of Alumina over that required to form feldspars, we say that the<br><br>        rock is peraluminous.  This condition is expressed<br><br>        chemically on a molecular basis as:

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm3.txt
> Cpx, Opx, Hornblende<br><br><br>Trachyte<br>Sanidine + Plagioclase<br>Na-Cpx, Hornblende, Biotite<br><br><br>Dacite<br>Plagioclase + Hornblende<br>Cpx, Opx, Biotite<br><br><br>Rhyolite<br>Quartz <br>Sanidine, Biotite, Plag., Hornblende, Cpx,<br><br>    Opx<br><br><br> The amount of glass in the groundmass increases, in general, from the top to the<br><br>    bottom of the chart.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Once the rocks are brought back to the laboratory and thin sections can be made, these<br><br>        are examined, mineralogical content can be more precisely determined, and refinements in<br><br>        the mineralogical and textural classification can be made.<br><br><br>Chemical analyses can be obtained, and a chemical classification, such as the LeBas et<br><br>        al., IUGS chemical classification of volcanic rocks (based on total alkalies [Na2O<br><br>        + K2O] vs. SiO2 diagram shown below)<br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br>Note that at each stage of the process, the classification may change, but it is<br><br>    important to keep in mind that each stage has limitations, and that classification at each<br><br>    stage is for the purposes of describing the rock, not only for the individual<br><br>    investigator, but anyone else.  Thus, the classification scheme should be employed in<br><br>    a consistent manner so that later investigators can understand what you are talking about<br><br>    at each stage of the process.<br><br><br><br><br><br> <br>General Chemical Classifications<br>SiO2 (Silica) Content<br><br> 66 wt. % - Acid<br>52-66 wt% - Intermediate<br>45-52 wt% - Basic<br>< 45 wt % - Ultrabasic<br><br>This terminology is based on the onetime idea that rocks with a high<br><br>      % SiO2 were precipitated from waters with a high concentration of<br><br>    hyrdosilicic acid H4SiO4.  Although we now know this is not<br><br>    true, the acid/base terminology is well entrenched in the literature.<br>Silica Saturation<br>If a magma is oversaturated with respect to Silica then a silica mineral,<br><br>    such as quartz, cristobalite, tridymite, or coesite, should precipitate from the magma,<br><br>    and be present in the rock.  On the other hand, if a magma is undersaturated with<br><br>    respect to silica, then a silica mineral should not precipitate from the magma, and thus<br><br>    should not be present in the rock.  The silica saturation concept can thus be used to<br><br>    divide rocks in silica undersaturated, silica saturated, and silica oversaturated rocks.<br><br>      The first and last of these terms are most easily seen.<br><br><br>Silica Undersaturated Rocks - In these rocks we should find minerals<br><br>        that, in general, do not occur with quartz.  Such minerals are:<br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Nepheline- NaAlSiO4<br>Leucite - KAlSi2O6<br><br><br>Forsteritic Olivine - Mg2SiO4<br>Sodalite - 3NaAlSiO4.NaCl

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm2.txt
> minerals present could have widely different textures.  In fact we generally use<br><br>            textural criteria to subdivide igneous rocks in to plutonic (usually medium to coarse<br><br>            grained) and volcanic (usually fine grained, glassy, or porphyritic.) varieties.<br><br><br>Color. Color of a rock depends on the minerals present and on their<br><br>            grain size.  Generally, rocks that contain lots of feldspar and quartz are light<br><br>            colored, and rocks that contain lots of pyroxenes, olivines, and amphiboles<br><br>            (ferromagnesium minerals) are dark colored.  But color can be misleading when applied to<br><br>            rocks of the same composition but different grain size.  For example a granite<br><br>            consists of lots of quartz and feldspar and is generally light colored.  But a<br><br>            rapidly cooled volcanic rock with the same composition as the granite could be entirely<br><br>            glassy and black colored (i.e. an obsidian).  Still we can divide rocks in general<br><br>            into felsic rocks (those with lots of feldspar and quartz) and mafic<br><br>            rocks (those with lots of ferromagnesium minerals).  But, this does<br><br>            not allow for a very detailed classification scheme.<br><br><br>Chemical Composition.  Chemical composition of igneous rocks is<br><br>            the most distinguishing feature.<br><br><br><br><br>The composition usually reflects the composition of the magma, and thus provides<br><br>            information on the source of the rock.<br><br><br>The chemical composition of the magma determines the minerals that will crystallize and<br><br>            their proportions.<br><br><br>A set of hypothetical minerals that could crystallize from a magma with the same<br><br>            chemical composition as the rock (called the Norm), can<br><br>            facilitate comparison between rocks.<br><br><br>Still, because chemical composition can vary continuously, there are few natural breaks<br><br>            to facilitate divisions between different rocks.<br><br><br>Chemical composition cannot be easily determined in the field, making classification<br><br>            based on chemistry impractical.<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Because of the limitations of the various criteria that can used to classify igneous<br><br>    rocks, geologists use an approach based on the information obtainable at various stages of<br><br>    examining the rocks.<br><br>      <br>In the field, a simple field based classification must be used.  This is usually<br><br>        based on mineralogical content and texture.  For plutonic rocks, the IUGS system of<br><br>        classification can be used.  For volcanic rocks, the following table can be used.<br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Simple Field Classification of Volcanic Rocks<br>(For use in EENS 212)<br><br><br>Rock Name<br>Essential Minerals<br>Other Minerals (may or<br><br>    may not be present)<br><br><br>Basalt<br>Olivine<br>Cpx, Opx, Plag.<br><br><br>Basanite<br>Olivine + Feldspathoid (Nepheline/  <br><br>    Leucite)<br>Cpx, Plag.<br><br><br>Andesite<br>No olivine, abundant Plagioclase<br>Cpx, Opx, Hornblende

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm1.txt
> General Classification of Igneous Rocks<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>EENS 2120<br><br>Petrology<br><br><br>Prof. Stephen A.<br><br>      Nelson<br><br>Tulane University<br><br><br><br>General<br><br>    Classification of Igneous Rocks<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Classification of igneous rocks is one of the most confusing aspects of geology. This<br><br>    is partly due to historical reasons, partly due to the nature of magmas, and partly due to<br><br>    the various criteria that could potentially be used to classify rocks.<br><br>      <br>Early in the days of geology there were few rocks described and classified.  In<br><br>        those days each new rock described by a geologist could have shown characteristics<br><br>        different than the rocks that had already been described, so there was a tendency to give<br><br>        the new and different rock a new name. Because such factors as cooling conditions,<br><br>        chemical composition of the original magma, and weathering effects, there is a potential<br><br>        to see an infinite variety of igneous rocks, and thus a classification scheme based solely<br><br>        on the description of the rock would eventually lead to a plethora of rock names.  <br><br>        Still, because of the history of the science, many of these rock names are firmly<br><br>        entrenched in the literature, so the student must be aware of all of these names, or at<br><br>        least know where to look to find out what the various rocks names mean.<br><br><br>Magmas, from which all igneous rocks are derived, are complex liquid solutions.  <br><br>        Because they are solutions, their chemical composition can vary continuously within a<br><br>        range of compositions.  Because of the continuous variation in chemical composition<br><br>        there is no easy way to set limits within a classification scheme.<br><br><br>There are various criteria that could be used to classify igneous rocks.  Among<br><br>        them are:<br><br><br>Minerals Present in the Rock (the mode).<br><br>              The minerals present in a rock and their relative proportions in the rock depend<br><br>            largely on the chemical composition of the magma.  This works well as a<br><br>            classification scheme if all of the minerals that could potentially crystallize from the<br><br>            magma have done so - usually the case for slowly cooled plutonic igneous rocks.  But,<br><br>            volcanic rocks usually have their crystallization interrupted by eruption and rapid<br><br>            cooling on the surface.  In such rocks, there is often glass or the minerals are too<br><br>            small to be readily identified.  Thus a system of classification based solely on the<br><br>            minerals present can only be used.<br><br><br>            We can easily the inadequacy of a mineralogical classification based on minerals present<br><br>            if you look at the classification schemes for volcanic rocks given in introductory geology<br><br>            textbooks.  For example, most such schemes show that a dacite is a rock that contains<br><br>            small amounts of quartz, somewhat larger amounts of sanidine or alkali feldspar,<br><br>            plagioclase, biotite, and hornblende,  In all the years I have been looking at<br><br>            igneous rocks (since about the mid-cretaceous) I have yet to see a dacite that contains<br><br>            alkali feldspar.  Does this mean that the intro geology textbooks lie?  Not<br><br>            really, these are the minerals that should crystallize from a dacite magma, but don't<br><br>            because the crystallization history is interrupted by rapid cooling on the surface.<br><br><br>Texture of the Rock.  Rock texture depends to a large extent on<br><br>            cooling history of the magma.  Thus rocks with the same chemical composition and same

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm5.txt
> Al2O3  (CaO + Na2O + K2O)<br><br><br>        In peraluminous. rocks we expect to find an Al2O3-rich mineral<br><br>        present as a modal mineral - such as muscovite [KAl3Si3O10(OH)2],<br><br>        corundum [Al2O3], topaz [Al2SiO4(OH,F)2],<br><br>        or an Al2SiO5- mineral like kyanite, andalusite, or sillimanite.<br><br><br>        Peraluminous rocks will have corundum [Al2O3] in the CIPW norm and<br><br>        no diopside in the norm.<br><br><br>Metaluminous rocks are those for which the molecular<br><br>        percentages are as follows:<br><br><br>        Al2O3 < (CaO + Na2O + K2O)<br><br>        and<br><br>        Al2O3  (Na2O + K2O) <br><br><br>        These are the more common types of igneous rocks.  They are characterized by lack of<br><br>        an Al2O3-rich mineral and lack of sodic pyroxenes and amphiboles in<br><br>        the mode.<br><br><br>Peralkaline rocks are those that are oversaturated with<br><br>        alkalies (Na2O + K2O), and thus undersaturated with respect to Al2O3.<br><br>          On a molecular basis, these rocks show:<br><br><br>        Al2O3 < (Na2O + K2O)<br><br><br>        Peralkaline rocks are distinguished by the presence of Na-rich minerals like aegerine<br><br>        [NaFe+3Si2O6], riebeckite [Na2Fe3+2Fe2+3Si8O22(OH)2],<br><br>        arfvedsonite [Na3Fe4+2(Al,Fe+3)Si8O22(OH)2<br><br>        ], or aenigmatite [Na2Fe5+2TiO2Si6O18]<br><br>        in the mode.<br><br><br>        In the CIPW norm, acmite [NaFe+3Si2O6 ] and/or sodium<br><br>        metasilicate Na2SiO3 will occur as normative minerals.<br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Alkaline/Subalkaline Rocks<br>One last general classification scheme<br><br>    divides rocks that alkaline from those that are subalkaline.  Note that this criteria<br><br>    is based solely on an alkali vs. silica diagram, as shown below.  Alkaline rocks<br><br>    should not be confused with peralkaline rocks as discussed above.  While most<br><br>    peralkaline rocks are also alkaline, alkaline rocks are not necessarily peralkaline.<br><br>      On the other hand, very alkaline rocks, that is those that plot well above the<br><br>    dividing line in the figure below, are also usually silica undersaturated.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br> Examples of Questions on this material that could be on an Exam <br><br>Define the following terms:  (a) Mode, (b) Norm, (c) silica saturation (d) peralkaline, (e) peraluminous, (f) metaluminous, (g) acid igneous rock.<br><br><br>Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is undersaturated with respect to silica? (choose all that apply)<br><br>        (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) sodalite, (g) anorthite, (h) aegerine<br><br><br>Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is peraluminous?  (choose all that apply) (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) corrundum, (g) kyanite, (h) reibeckite<br><br><br> Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is peralkaline?  (choose all that apply) (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) corrundum, (g) aegerine, (h) reibeckite, (i) aenigmatite.<br><br><br><br>Return to EENS 2120 Home Page


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 2, acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm2.txt
> minerals present could have widely different textures.  In fact we generally use<br><br>            textural criteria to subdivide igneous rocks in to plutonic (usually medium to coarse<br><br>            grained) and volcanic (usually fine grained, glassy, or porphyritic.) varieties.<br><br><br>Color. Color of a rock depends on the minerals present and on their<br><br>            grain size.  Generally, rocks that contain lots of feldspar and quartz are light<br><br>            colored, and rocks that contain lots of pyroxenes, olivines, and amphiboles<br><br>            (ferromagnesium minerals) are dark colored.  But color can be misleading when applied to<br><br>            rocks of the same composition but different grain size.  For example a granite<br><br>            consists of lots of quartz and feldspar and is generally light colored.  But a<br><br>            rapidly cooled volcanic rock with the same composition as the granite could be entirely<br><br>            glassy and black colored (i.e. an obsidian).  Still we can divide rocks in general<br><br>            into felsic rocks (those with lots of feldspar and quartz) and mafic<br><br>            rocks (those with lots of ferromagnesium minerals).  But, this does<br><br>            not allow for a very detailed classification scheme.<br><br><br>Chemical Composition.  Chemical composition of igneous rocks is<br><br>            the most distinguishing feature.<br><br><br><br><br>The composition usually reflects the composition of the magma, and thus provides<br><br>            information on the source of the rock.<br><br><br>The chemical composition of the magma determines the minerals that will crystallize and<br><br>            their proportions.<br><br><br>A set of hypothetical minerals that could crystallize from a magma with the same<br><br>            chemical composition as the rock (called the Norm), can<br><br>            facilitate comparison between rocks.<br><br><br>Still, because chemical composition can vary continuously, there are few natural breaks<br><br>            to facilitate divisions between different rocks.<br><br><br>Chemical composition cannot be easily determined in the field, making classification<br><br>            based on chemistry impractical.<br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Because of the limitations of the various criteria that can used to classify igneous<br><br>    rocks, geologists use an approach based on the information obtainable at various stages of<br><br>    examining the rocks.<br><br>      <br>In the field, a simple field based classification must be used.  This is usually<br><br>        based on mineralogical content and texture.  For plutonic rocks, the IUGS system of<br><br>        classification can be used.  For volcanic rocks, the following table can be used.<br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br>Simple Field Classification of Volcanic Rocks<br>(For use in EENS 212)<br><br><br>Rock Name<br>Essential Minerals<br>Other Minerals (may or<br><br>    may not be present)<br><br><br>Basalt<br>Olivine<br>Cpx, Opx, Plag.<br><br><br>Basanite<br>Olivine + Feldspathoid (Nepheline/  <br><br>    Leucite)<br>Cpx, Plag.<br><br><br>Andesite<br>No olivine, abundant Plagioclase<br>Cpx, Opx, Hornblende

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 1, acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm3.txt
> Cpx, Opx, Hornblende<br><br><br>Trachyte<br>Sanidine + Plagioclase<br>Na-Cpx, Hornblende, Biotite<br><br><br>Dacite<br>Plagioclase + Hornblende<br>Cpx, Opx, Biotite<br><br><br>Rhyolite<br>Quartz <br>Sanidine, Biotite, Plag., Hornblende, Cpx,<br><br>    Opx<br><br><br> The amount of glass in the groundmass increases, in general, from the top to the<br><br>    bottom of the chart.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Once the rocks are brought back to the laboratory and thin sections can be made, these<br><br>        are examined, mineralogical content can be more precisely determined, and refinements in<br><br>        the mineralogical and textural classification can be made.<br><br><br>Chemical analyses can be obtained, and a chemical classification, such as the LeBas et<br><br>        al., IUGS chemical classification of volcanic rocks (based on total alkalies [Na2O<br><br>        + K2O] vs. SiO2 diagram shown below)<br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br>Note that at each stage of the process, the classification may change, but it is<br><br>    important to keep in mind that each stage has limitations, and that classification at each<br><br>    stage is for the purposes of describing the rock, not only for the individual<br><br>    investigator, but anyone else.  Thus, the classification scheme should be employed in<br><br>    a consistent manner so that later investigators can understand what you are talking about<br><br>    at each stage of the process.<br><br><br><br><br><br> <br>General Chemical Classifications<br>SiO2 (Silica) Content<br><br> 66 wt. % - Acid<br>52-66 wt% - Intermediate<br>45-52 wt% - Basic<br>< 45 wt % - Ultrabasic<br><br>This terminology is based on the onetime idea that rocks with a high<br><br>      % SiO2 were precipitated from waters with a high concentration of<br><br>    hyrdosilicic acid H4SiO4.  Although we now know this is not<br><br>    true, the acid/base terminology is well entrenched in the literature.<br>Silica Saturation<br>If a magma is oversaturated with respect to Silica then a silica mineral,<br><br>    such as quartz, cristobalite, tridymite, or coesite, should precipitate from the magma,<br><br>    and be present in the rock.  On the other hand, if a magma is undersaturated with<br><br>    respect to silica, then a silica mineral should not precipitate from the magma, and thus<br><br>    should not be present in the rock.  The silica saturation concept can thus be used to<br><br>    divide rocks in silica undersaturated, silica saturated, and silica oversaturated rocks.<br><br>      The first and last of these terms are most easily seen.<br><br><br>Silica Undersaturated Rocks - In these rocks we should find minerals<br><br>        that, in general, do not occur with quartz.  Such minerals are:<br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Nepheline- NaAlSiO4<br>Leucite - KAlSi2O6<br><br><br>Forsteritic Olivine - Mg2SiO4<br>Sodalite - 3NaAlSiO4.NaCl

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 4, acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm5.txt
> Al2O3  (CaO + Na2O + K2O)<br><br><br>        In peraluminous. rocks we expect to find an Al2O3-rich mineral<br><br>        present as a modal mineral - such as muscovite [KAl3Si3O10(OH)2],<br><br>        corundum [Al2O3], topaz [Al2SiO4(OH,F)2],<br><br>        or an Al2SiO5- mineral like kyanite, andalusite, or sillimanite.<br><br><br>        Peraluminous rocks will have corundum [Al2O3] in the CIPW norm and<br><br>        no diopside in the norm.<br><br><br>Metaluminous rocks are those for which the molecular<br><br>        percentages are as follows:<br><br><br>        Al2O3 < (CaO + Na2O + K2O)<br><br>        and<br><br>        Al2O3  (Na2O + K2O) <br><br><br>        These are the more common types of igneous rocks.  They are characterized by lack of<br><br>        an Al2O3-rich mineral and lack of sodic pyroxenes and amphiboles in<br><br>        the mode.<br><br><br>Peralkaline rocks are those that are oversaturated with<br><br>        alkalies (Na2O + K2O), and thus undersaturated with respect to Al2O3.<br><br>          On a molecular basis, these rocks show:<br><br><br>        Al2O3 < (Na2O + K2O)<br><br><br>        Peralkaline rocks are distinguished by the presence of Na-rich minerals like aegerine<br><br>        [NaFe+3Si2O6], riebeckite [Na2Fe3+2Fe2+3Si8O22(OH)2],<br><br>        arfvedsonite [Na3Fe4+2(Al,Fe+3)Si8O22(OH)2<br><br>        ], or aenigmatite [Na2Fe5+2TiO2Si6O18]<br><br>        in the mode.<br><br><br>        In the CIPW norm, acmite [NaFe+3Si2O6 ] and/or sodium<br><br>        metasilicate Na2SiO3 will occur as normative minerals.<br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Alkaline/Subalkaline Rocks<br>One last general classification scheme<br><br>    divides rocks that alkaline from those that are subalkaline.  Note that this criteria<br><br>    is based solely on an alkali vs. silica diagram, as shown below.  Alkaline rocks<br><br>    should not be confused with peralkaline rocks as discussed above.  While most<br><br>    peralkaline rocks are also alkaline, alkaline rocks are not necessarily peralkaline.<br><br>      On the other hand, very alkaline rocks, that is those that plot well above the<br><br>    dividing line in the figure below, are also usually silica undersaturated.<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br> Examples of Questions on this material that could be on an Exam <br><br>Define the following terms:  (a) Mode, (b) Norm, (c) silica saturation (d) peralkaline, (e) peraluminous, (f) metaluminous, (g) acid igneous rock.<br><br><br>Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is undersaturated with respect to silica? (choose all that apply)<br><br>        (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) sodalite, (g) anorthite, (h) aegerine<br><br><br>Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is peraluminous?  (choose all that apply) (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) corrundum, (g) kyanite, (h) reibeckite<br><br><br> Which of the following minerals, if found in a rock, would indicate that the rock is peralkaline?  (choose all that apply) (a) nepheline, (b) leucite, (c) plagioclase, (d) quartz, (e) muscovite, (f) corrundum, (g) aegerine, (h) reibeckite, (i) aenigmatite.<br><br><br><br>Return to EENS 2120 Home Page

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 3, acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm1.txt
> General Classification of Igneous Rocks<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>EENS 2120<br><br>Petrology<br><br><br>Prof. Stephen A.<br><br>      Nelson<br><br>Tulane University<br><br><br><br>General<br><br>    Classification of Igneous Rocks<br><br><br><br><br><br><br> <br><br><br><br><br>Classification of igneous rocks is one of the most confusing aspects of geology. This<br><br>    is partly due to historical reasons, partly due to the nature of magmas, and partly due to<br><br>    the various criteria that could potentially be used to classify rocks.<br><br>      <br>Early in the days of geology there were few rocks described and classified.  In<br><br>        those days each new rock described by a geologist could have shown characteristics<br><br>        different than the rocks that had already been described, so there was a tendency to give<br><br>        the new and different rock a new name. Because such factors as cooling conditions,<br><br>        chemical composition of the original magma, and weathering effects, there is a potential<br><br>        to see an infinite variety of igneous rocks, and thus a classification scheme based solely<br><br>        on the description of the rock would eventually lead to a plethora of rock names.  <br><br>        Still, because of the history of the science, many of these rock names are firmly<br><br>        entrenched in the literature, so the student must be aware of all of these names, or at<br><br>        least know where to look to find out what the various rocks names mean.<br><br><br>Magmas, from which all igneous rocks are derived, are complex liquid solutions.  <br><br>        Because they are solutions, their chemical composition can vary continuously within a<br><br>        range of compositions.  Because of the continuous variation in chemical composition<br><br>        there is no easy way to set limits within a classification scheme.<br><br><br>There are various criteria that could be used to classify igneous rocks.  Among<br><br>        them are:<br><br><br>Minerals Present in the Rock (the mode).<br><br>              The minerals present in a rock and their relative proportions in the rock depend<br><br>            largely on the chemical composition of the magma.  This works well as a<br><br>            classification scheme if all of the minerals that could potentially crystallize from the<br><br>            magma have done so - usually the case for slowly cooled plutonic igneous rocks.  But,<br><br>            volcanic rocks usually have their crystallization interrupted by eruption and rapid<br><br>            cooling on the surface.  In such rocks, there is often glass or the minerals are too<br><br>            small to be readily identified.  Thus a system of classification based solely on the<br><br>            minerals present can only be used.<br><br><br>            We can easily the inadequacy of a mineralogical classification based on minerals present<br><br>            if you look at the classification schemes for volcanic rocks given in introductory geology<br><br>            textbooks.  For example, most such schemes show that a dacite is a rock that contains<br><br>            small amounts of quartz, somewhat larger amounts of sanidine or alkali feldspar,<br><br>            plagioclase, biotite, and hornblende,  In all the years I have been looking at<br><br>            igneous rocks (since about the mid-cretaceous) I have yet to see a dacite that contains<br><br>            alkali feldspar.  Does this mean that the intro geology textbooks lie?  Not<br><br>            really, these are the minerals that should crystallize from a dacite magma, but don't<br><br>            because the crystallization history is interrupted by rapid cooling on the surface.<br><br><br>Texture of the Rock.  Rock texture depends to a large extent on<br><br>            cooling history of the magma.  Thus rocks with the same chemical composition and same

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 0, acidity_of_rock/igrockclassif_htm4.txt
> Nosean - 6NaAlSiO4.Na2SO4<br>Haüyne - 6NaAlSiO4.(Na2,Ca)SO4<br><br><br>Perovskite - CaTiO3<br>Melanite - Ca2Fe+3Si3O12<br><br><br>Melilite - (Ca,Na)2(Mg,Fe+2,Al,Si)3O7<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>Thus, if we find any of these minerals in a rock, with an exception that we'll see in a<br><br>      moment, then we can expect the rock to be silica undersaturated.<br>If we calculate a CIPW Norm (we'll see how to do this in lab) the normative minerals<br><br>      that occur in silica undersaturated rocks are nepheline and/or leucite.<br>Silica Oversaturated Rocks.  These rocks can be identified as possibly any rock<br><br>        that does not contain one of the minerals in the above list.  <br><br><br>        If we calculate a CIPW Norm, silica oversaturated rocks will contain normative quartz.<br><br><br>Silica Saturated Rocks.  These are rocks that contain just enough silica that<br><br>        quartz does not appear, and just enough silica that one of the silica undersaturated<br><br>        minerals does not appear.  In the CIPW norm, these rocks contain olivine, or<br><br>        hypersthene + olivine, but no quartz, no nepheline, and no leucite.<br><br><br>To get an idea about what silica saturation means, let's look at a simple silicate<br><br>    system - the system Mg2SiO4 - SiO2<br><br><br><br><br>Note how compositions between Fo and En will end their crystallization<br><br>    with only Fo olivine and enstatite.  These are SiO2-undersaturated.  <br><br>    compositions.  All compositions between En and SiO2 will end their<br><br>    crystallization with quartz and enstatite.  These are SiO2 - oversaturated<br><br>    compositions.  Note also that this can cause some confusion in volcanic rocks that<br><br>    do not complete their crystallization due to rapid cooling on the surface.  Let's<br><br>    imagine first a composition in the silica-undersaturated field.  Cooling to anywhere<br><br>    on the liquidus will result in the crystallization of Fo-rich olivine.  If this<br><br>    liquid containing olivine is erupted and the rest of the liquid quenches to a glass, then<br><br>    this will produce a rock with phenocrysts of olivine in a glassy groundmass.<br><br><br><br><br><br>Applying the criteria above for identifying silica undersaturated rocks would tell us<br><br>    that this is a silica-undersaturated rock, which we know to be correct.  Next, let's<br><br>    look at a silica oversaturated composition, such as one just to the left of the point<br><br>    labeled 'P' in the diagram.  If this liquid is cooled to the liquidus and olivine is<br><br>    allowed to crystallize, and is then quenched on the surface, it will contain phenocrysts<br><br>    of Fo-rich olivine in a glassy groundmass.  Applying the criteria above would suggest<br><br>    that this rock is also silica undersaturated, but we know it is not.  This<br><br>    illustrates one of the difficulties of applying any criteria of classification to volcanic<br><br>    rocks where incomplete crystallization/reaction has not allowed all minerals to form.<br><br><br><br><br>Alumina (Al2O3) Saturation<br>After silica,<br><br>    alumina is the second most abundant oxide constituent in igneous rocks.  Feldspars<br><br>    are, in general, the most abundant minerals that occur in igneous rocks.  Thus, the<br><br>    concept of alumina saturation is based on whether or not there is an excess or lack of Al<br><br>    to make up the feldspars.  Note that Al2O3 occurs in feldspars<br><br>    in a ratio of 1 Al to 1 Na, 1K, or 1 Ca:<br><br>KAlSi3O8  --  1/2K2O :<br><br>      1/2Al2O3<br>NaAlSi3O8  --  1/2Na2O :<br><br>      1/2Al2O3<br>CaAl2Si2O8 -- 1CaO : 1Al2O3<br><br>Three possible conditions exist.<br>If there is an excess of Alumina over that required to form feldspars, we say that the<br><br>        rock is peraluminous.  This condition is expressed<br><br>        chemically on a molecular basis as:
