# Query `1`

## Original Question

*The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer `n`, return _all distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_. You may return the answer in any order.

Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.

Example 1:

Input: n = 4
Output: \[\[ ".Q.. ", "...Q ", "Q... ", "..Q. "\],\[ "..Q. ", "Q... ", "...Q ", ".Q.. "\]\]
Explanation: There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above

Example 2:

Input: n = 1
Output: \[\[ "Q "\]\]

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 9`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6131
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_52.txt
> def is_safe(cols, row):<br>    """The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 9`"""<br><br>    col = len(cols)<br>    for i, r in enumerate(cols):<br>        if r == row or abs(i - col) == abs(r - row):<br>            return False<br>    return True<br><br><br>def backtrack(n, cols):<br>    if len(cols) == n:<br>        return 1<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if is_safe(cols, i):<br>            cols.append(i)<br>            count += backtrack(n, cols)<br>            cols.pop()<br><br>    return count<br><br><br>def total_n_queens(n):<br>    cols = []<br>    return backtrack(n, cols)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/csn_python_train_119698.txt
> def n_queens(queen_count):<br>    """N-Queens solver.<br><br>    Args:<br>        queen_count: the number of queens to solve for. This is also the<br>            board size.<br><br>    Yields:<br>        Solutions to the problem. Each yielded value is looks like<br>        (3, 8, 2, 1, 4, ..., 6) where each number is the column position for the<br>        queen, and the index into the tuple indicates the row.<br>    """<br>    out =list()<br>    cols = range(queen_count)<br>    #for vec in permutations(cols):<br>    for vec in permutations(cols,None):<br>        if (queen_count == len(set(vec[i]+i for i in cols))<br>                        == len(set(vec[i]-i for i in cols))):<br>            #yield vec<br>            out.append(vec)<br>    return out

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1342.txt
> def queensAttacktheKing(queens, king):<br>    """Given an integer `num`, return _the number of steps to reduce it to zero_.<br><br>In one step, if the current number is even, you have to divide it by `2`, otherwise, you have to subtract `1` from it.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 14<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>Step 1) 14 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 7. <br>Step 2) 7 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 6.<br>Step 3) 6 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 3. <br>Step 4) 3 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 2. <br>Step 5) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. <br>Step 6) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 8<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: <br>Step 1) 8 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 4. <br>Step 2) 4 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 2. <br>Step 3) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. <br>Step 4) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: num = 123<br>Output: 12<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= num <= 106`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    for x in range(-1, 2):<br>        for y in range(-1, 2):<br>            if x == 0 and y == 0:<br>                continue<br>            posX, posY = king[0] + x, king[1] + y<br>            while 0 <= posX < 8 and 0 <= posY < 8:<br>                for queen in queens:<br>                    if posX == queen[0] and posY == queen[1]:<br>                        result.append([queen[0], queen[1]])<br>                        break<br>                posX += x<br>                posY += y<br>    return result

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/csn_python_train_209599.txt
> def nqueen_graph(self):<br>        """ Graph n-queens problem for the current version and context. """<br>        # Filters out boards with pieces other than queens.<br>        nqueens = self.results<br>        for piece_label in set(PIECE_LABELS).difference(['queen']):<br>            nqueens = nqueens[nqueens[piece_label].map(pandas.isnull)]<br><br>        # Filters out non-square boards whose dimension are not aligned to the<br>        # number of queens.<br>        nqueens = nqueens[nqueens['length'] == nqueens['queen']]<br>        nqueens = nqueens[nqueens['height'] == nqueens['queen']]<br><br>        # Filters out results not obtained from this system.<br>        for label, value in self.context.items():<br>            if not value:<br>                nqueens = nqueens[nqueens[label].map(pandas.isnull)]<br>            else:<br>                nqueens = nqueens[nqueens[label] == value]<br><br>        plot = seaborn.factorplot(<br>            x='queen',<br>            y='execution_time',<br>            data=nqueens.sort(columns='queen'),<br>            estimator=median,<br>            kind='bar',<br>            palette='BuGn_d',<br>            aspect=1.5)<br>        plot.set_xlabels('Number of queens')<br>        plot.set_ylabels('Solving time in seconds (log scale)')<br>        plot.fig.get_axes()[0].set_yscale('log')<br><br>        plot.savefig('nqueens-performances.png')

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_935.txt
> def lex_smallest_string(s, k):<br>    """The chess knight has a unique movement, it may move two squares vertically and one square horizontally, or two squares horizontally and one square vertically (with both forming the shape of an L). The possible movements of chess knight are shown in this diagaram:<br><br>A chess knight can move as indicated in the chess diagram below:<br><br>We have a chess knight and a phone pad as shown below, the knight can only stand on a numeric cell (i.e. blue cell).<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return how many distinct phone numbers of length `n` we can dial.<br><br>You are allowed to place the knight on any numeric cell initially and then you should perform `n - 1` jumps to dial a number of length `n`. All jumps should be valid knight jumps.<br><br>As the answer may be very large, return the answer modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: We need to dial a number of length 1, so placing the knight over any numeric cell of the 10 cells is sufficient.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: All the valid number we can dial are \[04, 06, 16, 18, 27, 29, 34, 38, 40, 43, 49, 60, 61, 67, 72, 76, 81, 83, 92, 94\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3131<br>Output: 136006598<br>Explanation: Please take care of the mod.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`"""<br><br>    res = s<br>    for i in range(k):<br>        tmp = s[i:] + s[:i]<br>        if tmp < res:<br>            res = tmp<br>    return res


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_52.txt
> def is_safe(cols, row):<br>    """The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 9`"""<br><br>    col = len(cols)<br>    for i, r in enumerate(cols):<br>        if r == row or abs(i - col) == abs(r - row):<br>            return False<br>    return True<br><br><br>def backtrack(n, cols):<br>    if len(cols) == n:<br>        return 1<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if is_safe(cols, i):<br>            cols.append(i)<br>            count += backtrack(n, cols)<br>            cols.pop()<br><br>    return count<br><br><br>def total_n_queens(n):<br>    cols = []<br>    return backtrack(n, cols)

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1001.txt
> def repeatedNTimes(nums):<br>    """There is a 2D `grid` of size `n x n` where each cell of this grid has a lamp that is initially turned off.<br><br>You are given a 2D array of lamp positions `lamps`, where `lamps[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the lamp at `grid[rowi][coli]` is turned on. Even if the same lamp is listed more than once, it is turned on.<br><br>When a lamp is turned on, it illuminates its cell and all other cells in the same row, column, or diagonal.<br><br>You are also given another 2D array `queries`, where `queries[j] = [rowj, colj]`. For the `jth` query, determine whether `grid[rowj][colj]` is illuminated or not. After answering the `jth` query, turn off the lamp at `grid[rowj][colj]` and its 8 adjacent lamps if they exist. A lamp is adjacent if its cell shares either a side or corner with `grid[rowj][colj]`.<br><br>Return _an array of integers_ `ans`_,_ _where_ `ans[j]` _should be_ `1` _if the cell in the_ `jth` _query was illuminated, or_ `0` _if the lamp was not._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,0\]<br>Explanation: We have the initial grid with all lamps turned off. In the above picture we see the grid after turning on the lamp at grid\[0\]\[0\] then turning on the lamp at grid\[4\]\[4\].<br>The 0th query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[1\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is illuminated, so set ans\[0\] = 1. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red square.<br> <br>The 1st query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[0\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is not illuminated, so set ans\[1\] = 0. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red rectangle.<br> <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[0,4\]\], queries = \[\[0,4\],\[0,1\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`<br>   `0 <= lamps.length <= 20000`<br>   `0 <= queries.length <= 20000`<br>   `lamps[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli < n`<br>   `queries[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowj, colj < n`"""<br><br>    hash_map = {}<br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num in hash_map:<br>            return num<br>        else:<br>            hash_map[num] = 1
