# Query `10`

## Original Question

*You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API `bool isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.

Example 1:

Input: n = 5, bad = 4
Output: 4
Explanation:
call isBadVersion(3) -> false
call isBadVersion(5) -> true
call isBadVersion(4) -> true
Then 4 is the first bad version.

Example 2:

Input: n = 1, bad = 1
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `1 <= bad <= n <= 231 - 1`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0270
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0894
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0894
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0090
map_cut_100: 0.0090
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_8.txt
> def myAtoi(s):<br>    """Implement the `myAtoi(string s)` function, which converts a string to a 32-bit signed integer (similar to C/C++'s `atoi` function).<br><br>The algorithm for `myAtoi(string s)` is as follows:<br><br>1.  Read in and ignore any leading whitespace.<br>2.  Check if the next character (if not already at the end of the string) is `'-'` or `'+'`. Read this character in if it is either. This determines if the final result is negative or positive respectively. Assume the result is positive if neither is present.<br>3.  Read in next the characters until the next non-digit character or the end of the input is reached. The rest of the string is ignored.<br>4.  Convert these digits into an integer (i.e. `"123 " - 123`, `"0032 " - 32`). If no digits were read, then the integer is `0`. Change the sign as necessary (from step 2).<br>5.  If the integer is out of the 32-bit signed integer range `[-231, 231 - 1]`, then clamp the integer so that it remains in the range. Specifically, integers less than `-231` should be clamped to `-231`, and integers greater than `231 - 1` should be clamped to `231 - 1`.<br>6.  Return the integer as the final result.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   Only the space character `' '` is considered a whitespace character.<br>   Do not ignore any characters other than the leading whitespace or the rest of the string after the digits.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "42 "<br>Output: 42<br>Explanation: The underlined characters are what is read in, the caret is the current reader position.<br>Step 1:  "42 " (no characters read because there is no leading whitespace)<br>         ^<br>Step 2:  "42 " (no characters read because there is neither a '-' nor '+')<br>         ^<br>Step 3:  "42 " ( "42 " is read in)<br>           ^<br>The parsed integer is 42.<br>Since 42 is in the range \[-231, 231 - 1\], the final result is 42.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "   -42 "<br>Output: -42<br>Explanation:<br>Step 1:  "   \-42 " (leading whitespace is read and ignored)<br>            ^<br>Step 2:  "   \-42 " ('-' is read, so the result should be negative)<br>             ^<br>Step 3:  "   -42 " ( "42 " is read in)<br>               ^<br>The parsed integer is -42.<br>Since -42 is in the range \[-231, 231 - 1\], the final result is -42.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "4193 with words "<br>Output: 4193<br>Explanation:<br>Step 1:  "4193 with words " (no characters read because there is no leading whitespace)<br>         ^<br>Step 2:  "4193 with words " (no characters read because there is neither a '-' nor '+')<br>         ^<br>Step 3:  "4193 with words " ( "4193 " is read in; reading stops because the next character is a non-digit)<br>             ^<br>The parsed integer is 4193.<br>Since 4193 is in the range \[-231, 231 - 1\], the final result is 4193.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= s.length <= 200`<br>   `s` consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), digits (`0-9`), `' '`, `'+'`, `'-'`, and `'.'`."""<br><br>    result, i, sign = 0, 0, 1<br>    while i < len(s) and s[i] == ' ': i += 1<br>    if i < len(s) and (s[i] == '-' or s[i] == '+'):<br>        sign = -1 if s[i] == '-' else 1<br>        i += 1<br>    while i < len(s) and s[i].isdigit():<br>        result = result  10 + int(s[i])<br>        i += 1<br>        if result  sign  231 - 1: return 231 - 1<br>        if result  sign < -231: return -231<br>    return result  sign

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_334.txt
> def findTriplets(nums: List[int]) - bool:<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return `true` _if there exists a triple of indices_ `(i, j, k)` _such that_ `i < j < k` _and_ `nums[i] < nums[j] < nums[k]`. If no such indices exists, return `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Any triplet where i < j < k is valid.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,4,3,2,1\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: No triplet exists.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,5,0,4,6\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The triplet (3, 4, 5) is valid because nums\[3\] == 0 < nums\[4\] == 4 < nums\[5\] == 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 5  105`<br>   `-231 <= nums[i] <= 231 - 1`<br><br>Follow up: Could you implement a solution that runs in `O(n)` time complexity and `O(1)` space complexity?"""<br><br>    first = float('inf')<br>    second = float('inf')<br><br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num <= first:<br>            first = num<br>        elif num <= second:<br>            second = num<br>        else:<br>            return True<br>    return False

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2259.txt
> def max_number_after_remove_digit(number: str, digit: str) - str:<br>    """You are given a string `number` representing a positive integer and a character `digit`.<br><br>Return _the resulting string after removing exactly one occurrence of_ `digit` _from_ `number` _such that the value of the resulting string in decimal form is maximized_. The test cases are generated such that `digit` occurs at least once in `number`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: number =  "123 ", digit =  "3 "<br>Output:  "12 "<br>Explanation: There is only one '3' in  "123 ". After removing '3', the result is  "12 ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: number =  "1231 ", digit =  "1 "<br>Output:  "231 "<br>Explanation: We can remove the first '1' to get  "231 " or remove the second '1' to get  "123 ".<br>Since 231  123, we return  "231 ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: number =  "551 ", digit =  "5 "<br>Output:  "51 "<br>Explanation: We can remove either the first or second '5' from  "551 ".<br>Both result in the string  "51 ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= number.length <= 100`<br>   `number` consists of digits from `'1'` to `'9'`.<br>   `digit` is a digit from `'1'` to `'9'`.<br>   `digit` occurs at least once in `number`."""<br><br>    index = number.find(digit)<br>    return number[:index] + number[index + 1:]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_292.txt
> def canWinNim(n):<br>    """You are playing the following Nim Game with your friend:<br><br>   Initially, there is a heap of stones on the table.<br>   You and your friend will alternate taking turns, and you go first.<br>   On each turn, the person whose turn it is will remove 1 to 3 stones from the heap.<br>   The one who removes the last stone is the winner.<br><br>Given `n`, the number of stones in the heap, return `true` _if you can win the game assuming both you and your friend play optimally, otherwise return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: These are the possible outcomes:<br>1. You remove 1 stone. Your friend removes 3 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>2. You remove 2 stones. Your friend removes 2 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>3. You remove 3 stones. Your friend removes the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>In all outcomes, your friend wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    return n % 4 != 0

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2491.txt
> def maximumChemistry(skill):<br>    """You are given a positive integer array `skill` of even length `n` where `skill[i]` denotes the skill of the `ith` player. Divide the players into `n / 2` teams of size `2` such that the total skill of each team is equal.<br><br>The chemistry of a team is equal to the product of the skills of the players on that team.<br><br>Return _the sum of the chemistry of all the teams, or return_ `-1` _if there is no way to divide the players into teams such that the total skill of each team is equal._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: skill = \[3,2,5,1,3,4\]<br>Output: 22<br>Explanation: <br>Divide the players into the following teams: (1, 5), (2, 4), (3, 3), where each team has a total skill of 6.<br>The sum of the chemistry of all the teams is: 1 \ 5 + 2 \ 4 + 3 \ 3 = 5 + 8 + 9 = 22.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: skill = \[3,4\]<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: <br>The two players form a team with a total skill of 7.<br>The chemistry of the team is 3 \ 4 = 12.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: skill = \[1,1,2,3\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: <br>There is no way to divide the players into teams such that the total skill of each team is equal.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= skill.length <= 105`<br>   `skill.length` is even.<br>   `1 <= skill[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    total_sum = sum(skill)<br>    target_sum = total_sum // 2<br>    if total_sum % 2 == 1:<br>        return -1<br><br>    dp = {0: 1}<br>    max_chemistry = 0<br><br>    for s in skill:<br>        for i in range(target_sum - s, -1, -1):<br>            if i in dp:<br>                dp[i + s] = dp.get(i + s, 0) + dp[i]<br>                if i + s == target_sum:<br>                    max_chemistry += dp[i]  s<br><br>    return max_chemistry if max_chemistry  0 else -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_34.txt
> def searchRange(nums, target):<br>    """Given an array of integers `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, find the starting and ending position of a given `target` value.<br><br>If `target` is not found in the array, return `[-1, -1]`.<br><br>You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,7,7,8,8,10\], target = 8<br>Output: \[3,4\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,7,7,8,8,10\], target = 6<br>Output: \[-1,-1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[\], target = 0<br>Output: \[-1,-1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   `nums` is a non-decreasing array.<br>   `-109 <= target <= 109`"""<br><br>    start, end = -1, -1<br>    left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1<br>    <br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if nums[mid] < target:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br>            if nums[mid] == target:<br>                start = mid<br><br>    left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1<br>    <br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if nums[mid]  target:right = mid - 1<br>        else:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>            if nums[mid] == target:<br>                end = mid<br>    <br>    return [start, end]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_35.txt
> def searchInsert(nums, target):<br>    """Given a sorted array of distinct integers and a target value, return the index if the target is found. If not, return the index where it would be if it were inserted in order.<br><br>You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,5,6\], target = 5<br>Output: 2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,5,6\], target = 2<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,5,6\], target = 7<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 104`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br>   `nums` contains distinct values sorted in ascending order.<br>   `-104 <= target <= 104`"""<br><br>    left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1<br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if nums[mid] == target:<br>            return mid<br>        if nums[mid] < target:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br>    return left

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 36, leetcode/leetcode_374.txt
> def guessNumber(n):<br>    """We are playing the Guess Game. The game is as follows:<br><br>I pick a number from `1` to `n`. You have to guess which number I picked.<br><br>Every time you guess wrong, I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower than your guess.<br><br>You call a pre-defined API `int guess(int num)`, which returns three possible results:<br><br>   `-1`: Your guess is higher than the number I picked (i.e. `num  pick`).<br>   `1`: Your guess is lower than the number I picked (i.e. `num < pick`).<br>   `0`: your guess is equal to the number I picked (i.e. `num == pick`).<br><br>Return _the number that I picked_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10, pick = 6<br>Output: 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`<br>   `1 <= pick <= n`"""<br><br>    low, high = 1, n<br>    while low <= high:<br>        mid = low + (high - low) // 2<br>        result = guess(mid)<br>        if result == 0:<br>            return mid<br>        elif result < 0:<br>            high = mid - 1<br>        else:<br>            low = mid + 1<br>    return -1
