# Query `100`

## Original Question

*You and a gang of thieves are planning on robbing a bank. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `security`, where `security[i]` is the number of guards on duty on the `ith` day. The days are numbered starting from `0`. You are also given an integer `time`.

The `ith` day is a good day to rob the bank if:

   There are at least `time` days before and after the `ith` day,
   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days before `i` are non-increasing, and
   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days after `i` are non-decreasing.

More formally, this means day `i` is a good day to rob the bank if and only if `security[i - time] >= security[i - time + 1] >= ... >= security[i] <= ... <= security[i + time - 1] <= security[i + time]`.

Return _a list of all days (0-indexed) that are good days to rob the bank_. _The order that the days are returned in does not matter._

Example 1:

Input: security = \[5,3,3,3,5,6,2\], time = 2
Output: \[2,3\]
Explanation:
On day 2, we have security\[0\] >= security\[1\] >= security\[2\] <= security\[3\] <= security\[4\].
On day 3, we have security\[1\] >= security\[2\] >= security\[3\] <= security\[4\] <= security\[5\].
No other days satisfy this condition, so days 2 and 3 are the only good days to rob the bank.

Example 2:

Input: security = \[1,1,1,1,1\], time = 0
Output: \[0,1,2,3,4\]
Explanation:
Since time equals 0, every day is a good day to rob the bank, so return every day.

Example 3:

Input: security = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\], time = 2
Output: \[\]
Explanation:
No day has 2 days before it that have a non-increasing number of guards.
Thus, no day is a good day to rob the bank, so return an empty list.

Constraints:

   `1 <= security.length <= 105`
   `0 <= security[i], time <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2000
recall_10: 0.2000
recall_25: 0.2000
recall_50: 0.2000
recall_100: 0.2000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.1461
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1461
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1461
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1461
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1461
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0500
map_cut_10: 0.0500
map_cut_25: 0.0500
map_cut_50: 0.0500
map_cut_100: 0.0500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2560.txt
> def minimumCapability(nums, k):<br>    """There are several consecutive houses along a street, each of which has some money inside. There is also a robber, who wants to steal money from the homes, but he refuses to steal from adjacent homes.<br><br>The capability of the robber is the maximum amount of money he steals from one house of all the houses he robbed.<br><br>You are given an integer array `nums` representing how much money is stashed in each house. More formally, the `ith` house from the left has `nums[i]` dollars.<br><br>You are also given an integer `k`, representing the minimum number of houses the robber will steal from. It is always possible to steal at least `k` houses.<br><br>Return _the minimum capability of the robber out of all the possible ways to steal at least_ `k` _houses_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,3,5,9\], k = 2<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: <br>There are three ways to rob at least 2 houses:<br>- Rob the houses at indices 0 and 2. Capability is max(nums\[0\], nums\[2\]) = 5.<br>- Rob the houses at indices 0 and 3. Capability is max(nums\[0\], nums\[3\]) = 9.<br>- Rob the houses at indices 1 and 3. Capability is max(nums\[1\], nums\[3\]) = 9.<br>Therefore, we return min(5, 9, 9) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,7,9,3,1\], k = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are 7 ways to rob the houses. The way which leads to minimum capability is to rob the house at index 0 and 4. Return max(nums\[0\], nums\[4\]) = 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= k <= (nums.length + 1)/2`"""<br><br>    n, l, r = len(nums), 1, 109<br>    while l < r:<br>        mid = l + (r - l) // 2<br>        i, cnt = 0, 0<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if nums[j] <= mid:<br>                cnt += 1<br>                i = j + 2<br>                while i + 1 < n and (i == j + 1 or nums[i]  mid):<br>                    i += 1<br>        if cnt < k:<br>            l = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            r = mid<br>    return l

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2125.txt
> def can_sort_using_swap(nums):<br>    """Anti-theft security devices are activated inside a bank. You are given a 0-indexed binary string array `bank` representing the floor plan of the bank, which is an `m x n` 2D matrix. `bank[i]` represents the `ith` row, consisting of `'0'`s and `'1'`s. `'0'` means the cell is empty, while`'1'` means the cell has a security device.<br><br>There is one laser beam between any two security devices if both conditions are met:<br><br>   The two devices are located on two different rows: `r1` and `r2`, where `r1 < r2`.<br>   For each row `i` where `r1 < i < r2`, there are no security devices in the `ith` row.<br><br>Laser beams are independent, i.e., one beam does not interfere nor join with another.<br><br>Return _the total number of laser beams in the bank_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: bank = \[ "011001 ", "000000 ", "010100 ", "001000 "\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: Between each of the following device pairs, there is one beam. In total, there are 8 beams:<br> \ bank\[0\]\[1\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]<br> \ bank\[0\]\[1\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]<br> \ bank\[0\]\[2\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]<br> \ bank\[0\]\[2\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]<br> \ bank\[0\]\[5\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]<br> \ bank\[0\]\[5\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]<br> \ bank\[2\]\[1\] -- bank\[3\]\[2\]<br> \ bank\[2\]\[3\] -- bank\[3\]\[2\]<br>Note that there is no beam between any device on the 0th row with any on the 3rd row.<br>This is because the 2nd row contains security devices, which breaks the second condition.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: bank = \[ "000 ", "111 ", "000 "\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There does not exist two devices located on two different rows.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == bank.length`<br>   `n == bank[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 500`<br>   `bank[i][j]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`."""<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i] < nums[i - 1]:<br>            nums[i], nums[i - 1] = nums[i - 1], nums[i]<br>            if sorted(nums) == nums:<br>                return True<br>            nums[i], nums[i - 1] = nums[i - 1], nums[i]<br>    return False

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2257.txt
> def earliest_blooming_day(plant_time, grow_time):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` representing a 0-indexed `m x n` grid. You are also given two 2D integer arrays `guards` and `walls` where `guards[i] = [rowi, coli]` and `walls[j] = [rowj, colj]` represent the positions of the `ith` guard and `jth` wall respectively.<br><br>A guard can see every cell in the four cardinal directions (north, east, south, or west) starting from their position unless obstructed by a wall or another guard. A cell is guarded if there is at least one guard that can see it.<br><br>Return _the number of unoccupied cells that are not guarded._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, guards = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,3\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[2,2\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: The guarded and unguarded cells are shown in red and green respectively in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 7 unguarded cells, so we return 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 3, guards = \[\[1,1\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[2,1\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The unguarded cells are shown in green in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 4 unguarded cells, so we return 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= guards.length, walls.length <= 5  104`<br>   `2 <= guards.length + walls.length <= m  n`<br>   `guards[i].length == walls[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, rowj < m`<br>   `0 <= coli, colj < n`<br>   All the positions in `guards` and `walls` are unique."""<br><br>    bloom_time = [plant_time[i] + grow_time[i] for i in range(len(plant_time))]<br>    bloom_time.sort()<br>    earliest_day = 0<br>    for i in bloom_time:<br>        earliest_day = max(earliest_day, i)<br>        earliest_day += 1<br>    return earliest_day

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2420.txt
> def find_good_indices(nums, k):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` of size `n` and a positive integer `k`.<br><br>We call an index `i` in the range `k <= i < n - k` good if the following conditions are satisfied:<br><br>   The `k` elements that are just before the index `i` are in non-increasing order.<br>   The `k` elements that are just after the index `i` are in non-decreasing order.<br><br>Return _an array of all good indices sorted in increasing order_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,1,3,4,1\], k = 2<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation: There are two good indices in the array:<br>- Index 2. The subarray \[2,1\] is in non-increasing order, and the subarray \[1,3\] is in non-decreasing order.<br>- Index 3. The subarray \[1,1\] is in non-increasing order, and the subarray \[3,4\] is in non-decreasing order.<br>Note that the index 4 is not good because \[4,1\] is not non-decreasing.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,2\], k = 2<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation: There are no good indices in this array.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 106`<br>   `1 <= k <= n / 2`"""<br><br>    good_indices = []<br>    for i in range(k, len(nums) - k):<br>        left_non_inc = all(nums[i - j - 1] = nums[i - j - 2] for j in range(k - 1))<br>        right_non_dec = all(nums[i + j + 1] = nums[i + j + 2] for j in range(k - 1))<br><br>        if left_non_inc and right_non_dec:<br>            good_indices.append(i)<br><br>    return good_indices

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2200.txt
> def can_fit_stamps(grid, stampHeight, stampWidth):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` and two integers `key` and `k`. A k-distant index is an index `i` of `nums` for which there exists at least one index `j` such that `|i - j| <= k` and `nums[j] == key`.<br><br>Return _a list of all k-distant indices sorted in increasing order_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,4,9,1,3,9,5\], key = 9, k = 1<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4,5,6\]<br>Explanation: Here, `nums[2] == key` and `nums[5] == key. - For index 0, |0 - 2|  k and |0 - 5|  k, so there is no j` where `|0 - j| <= k` and `nums[j] == key. Thus, 0 is not a k-distant index. - For index 1, |1 - 2| <= k and nums[2] == key, so 1 is a k-distant index. - For index 2, |2 - 2| <= k and nums[2] == key, so 2 is a k-distant index. - For index 3, |3 - 2| <= k and nums[2] == key, so 3 is a k-distant index. - For index 4, |4 - 5| <= k and nums[5] == key, so 4 is a k-distant index. - For index 5, |5 - 5| <= k and nums[5] == key, so 5 is a k-distant index. - For index 6, |6 - 5| <= k and nums[5] == key, so 6 is a k-distant index.`<br>Thus, we return \[1,2,3,4,5,6\] which is sorted in increasing order. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,2,2,2,2\], key = 2, k = 2<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,4\]<br>Explanation: For all indices i in nums, there exists some index j such that |i - j| <= k and nums\[j\] == key, so every index is a k-distant index. <br>Hence, we return \[0,1,2,3,4\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`<br>   `key` is an integer from the array `nums`.<br>   `1 <= k <= nums.length`"""<br><br>    m, n = len(grid), len(grid[0])<br>    for i in range(m - stampHeight + 1):<br>        for j in range(n - stampWidth + 1):<br>            canFit = True<br>            for x in range(stampHeight):<br>                for y in range(stampWidth):<br>                    if grid[i + x][j + y] == 1:<br>                        canFit = False<br>                        break<br>                if not canFit:<br>                    break<br>            if canFit:<br>                return True<br>    return False


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_665.txt
> def checkPossibility(nums):<br>    """Given an array `nums` with `n` integers, your task is to check if it could become non-decreasing by modifying at most one element.<br><br>We define an array is non-decreasing if `nums[i] <= nums[i + 1]` holds for every `i` (0-based) such that (`0 <= i <= n - 2`).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,2,3\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: You could modify the first 4 to 1 to get a non-decreasing array.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,2,1\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: You cannot get a non-decreasing array by modifying at most one element.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `-105 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    cnt = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i] < nums[i - 1]:<br>            cnt += 1<br>            if i == 1 or nums[i] = nums[i - 2]:<br>                nums[i-1] = nums[i]<br>            else:<br>                nums[i] = nums[i - 1]<br>            if cnt  1:<br>                return False<br>    return True

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_845.txt
> def longestMountain(arr):<br>    """You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some index `i` (0-indexed) with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given an integer array `arr`, return _the length of the longest subarray, which is a mountain_. Return `0` if there is no mountain subarray.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[2,1,4,7,3,2,5\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The largest mountain is \[1,4,7,3,2\] which has length 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[2,2,2\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no mountain.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 104`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 104`<br><br>Follow up:<br><br>   Can you solve it using only one pass?<br>   Can you solve it in `O(1)` space?"""<br><br>    n = len(arr)<br>    res = up = down = 0<br><br>    for i in range(1, n):<br>        if (down and arr[i - 1] < arr[i]) or arr[i - 1] == arr[i]:<br>            up = down = 0<br><br>        up += arr[i - 1] < arr[i]<br>        down += arr[i - 1]  arr[i]<br><br>        if up and down:<br>            res = max(res, up + down + 1)<br><br>    return res

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1095.txt
> def twoCitySchedCost(costs):<br>    """_(This problem is an interactive problem.)_<br><br>You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some `i` with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given a mountain array `mountainArr`, return the minimum `index` such that `mountainArr.get(index) == target`. If such an `index` does not exist, return `-1`.<br><br>You cannot access the mountain array directly. You may only access the array using a `MountainArray` interface:<br><br>   `MountainArray.get(k)` returns the element of the array at index `k` (0-indexed).<br>   `MountainArray.length()` returns the length of the array.<br><br>Submissions making more than `100` calls to `MountainArray.get` will be judged _Wrong Answer_. Also, any solutions that attempt to circumvent the judge will result in disqualification.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: array = \[1,2,3,4,5,3,1\], target = 3<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: 3 exists in the array, at index=2 and index=5. Return the minimum index, which is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: array = \[0,1,2,4,2,1\], target = 3<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: 3 does not exist in `the array,` so we return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= mountain_arr.length() <= 104`<br>   `0 <= target <= 109`<br>   `0 <= mountain_arr.get(index) <= 109`"""<br><br>    costs.sort(key=lambda x: x[0] - x[1])<br><br>    totalCost = 0<br>    n = len(costs) // 2<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        totalCost += costs[i][0] + costs[i + n][1]<br><br>    return totalCost

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1800.txt
> def concatenated_binary(n: int) - int:<br>    """Given an array of positive integers `nums`, return the _maximum possible sum of an ascending subarray in_ `nums`.<br><br>A subarray is defined as a contiguous sequence of numbers in an array.<br><br>A subarray `[numsl, numsl+1, ..., numsr-1, numsr]` is ascending if for all `i` where `l <= i < r`, `numsi < numsi+1`. Note that a subarray of size `1` is ascending.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,20,30,5,10,50\]<br>Output: 65<br>Explanation: \[5,10,50\] is the ascending subarray with the maximum sum of 65.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,20,30,40,50\]<br>Output: 150<br>Explanation: \[10,20,30,40,50\] is the ascending subarray with the maximum sum of 150.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[12,17,15,13,10,11,12\]<br>Output: 33<br>Explanation: \[10,11,12\] is the ascending subarray with the maximum sum of 33.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    result = 0<br>    mod = 1000000007<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        length = len(bin(i)) - 2<br>        result = ((result << length) % mod + i) % mod<br>    return result

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 3, leetcode/leetcode_2420.txt
> def find_good_indices(nums, k):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` of size `n` and a positive integer `k`.<br><br>We call an index `i` in the range `k <= i < n - k` good if the following conditions are satisfied:<br><br>   The `k` elements that are just before the index `i` are in non-increasing order.<br>   The `k` elements that are just after the index `i` are in non-decreasing order.<br><br>Return _an array of all good indices sorted in increasing order_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,1,3,4,1\], k = 2<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation: There are two good indices in the array:<br>- Index 2. The subarray \[2,1\] is in non-increasing order, and the subarray \[1,3\] is in non-decreasing order.<br>- Index 3. The subarray \[1,1\] is in non-increasing order, and the subarray \[3,4\] is in non-decreasing order.<br>Note that the index 4 is not good because \[4,1\] is not non-decreasing.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,2\], k = 2<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation: There are no good indices in this array.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 106`<br>   `1 <= k <= n / 2`"""<br><br>    good_indices = []<br>    for i in range(k, len(nums) - k):<br>        left_non_inc = all(nums[i - j - 1] = nums[i - j - 2] for j in range(k - 1))<br>        right_non_dec = all(nums[i + j + 1] = nums[i + j + 2] for j in range(k - 1))<br><br>        if left_non_inc and right_non_dec:<br>            good_indices.append(i)<br><br>    return good_indices
