# Query `101`

## Original Question

*You are given a list of bombs. The range of a bomb is defined as the area where its effect can be felt. This area is in the shape of a circle with the center as the location of the bomb.

The bombs are represented by a 0-indexed 2D integer array `bombs` where `bombs[i] = [xi, yi, ri]`. `xi` and `yi` denote the X-coordinate and Y-coordinate of the location of the `ith` bomb, whereas `ri` denotes the radius of its range.

You may choose to detonate a single bomb. When a bomb is detonated, it will detonate all bombs that lie in its range. These bombs will further detonate the bombs that lie in their ranges.

Given the list of `bombs`, return _the maximum number of bombs that can be detonated if you are allowed to detonate only one bomb_.

Example 1:

Input: bombs = \[\[2,1,3\],\[6,1,4\]\]
Output: 2
Explanation:
The above figure shows the positions and ranges of the 2 bombs.
If we detonate the left bomb, the right bomb will not be affected.
But if we detonate the right bomb, both bombs will be detonated.
So the maximum bombs that can be detonated is max(1, 2) = 2.

Example 2:

Input: bombs = \[\[1,1,5\],\[10,10,5\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation:
Detonating either bomb will not detonate the other bomb, so the maximum number of bombs that can be detonated is 1.

Example 3:

Input: bombs = \[\[1,2,3\],\[2,3,1\],\[3,4,2\],\[4,5,3\],\[5,6,4\]\]
Output: 5
Explanation:
The best bomb to detonate is bomb 0 because:
- Bomb 0 detonates bombs 1 and 2. The red circle denotes the range of bomb 0.
- Bomb 2 detonates bomb 3. The blue circle denotes the range of bomb 2.
- Bomb 3 detonates bomb 4. The green circle denotes the range of bomb 3.
Thus all 5 bombs are detonated.

Constraints:

   `1 <= bombs.length <= 100`
   `bombs[i].length == 3`
   `1 <= xi, yi, ri <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0016
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2201.txt
> def arrange_pairs(pairs):<br>    """There is an `n x n` 0-indexed grid with some artifacts buried in it. You are given the integer `n` and a 0-indexed 2D integer array `artifacts` describing the positions of the rectangular artifacts where `artifacts[i] = [r1i, c1i, r2i, c2i]` denotes that the `ith` artifact is buried in the subgrid where:<br><br>   `(r1i, c1i)` is the coordinate of the top-left cell of the `ith` artifact and<br>   `(r2i, c2i)` is the coordinate of the bottom-right cell of the `ith` artifact.<br><br>You will excavate some cells of the grid and remove all the mud from them. If the cell has a part of an artifact buried underneath, it will be uncovered. If all the parts of an artifact are uncovered, you can extract it.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `dig` where `dig[i] = [ri, ci]` indicates that you will excavate the cell `(ri, ci)`, return _the number of artifacts that you can extract_.<br><br>The test cases are generated such that:<br><br>   No two artifacts overlap.<br>   Each artifact only covers at most `4` cells.<br>   The entries of `dig` are unique.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 2, artifacts = \[\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,1,1,1\]\], dig = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: <br>The different colors represent different artifacts. Excavated cells are labeled with a 'D' in the grid.<br>There is 1 artifact that can be extracted, namely the red artifact.<br>The blue artifact has one part in cell (1,1) which remains uncovered, so we cannot extract it.<br>Thus, we return 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, artifacts = \[\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,1,1,1\]\], dig = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Both the red and blue artifacts have all parts uncovered (labeled with a 'D') and can be extracted, so we return 2. <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= artifacts.length, dig.length <= min(n2, 105)`<br>   `artifacts[i].length == 4`<br>   `dig[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= r1i, c1i, r2i, c2i, ri, ci <= n - 1`<br>   `r1i <= r2i`<br>   `c1i <= c2i`<br>   No two artifacts will overlap.<br>   The number of cells covered by an artifact is at most `4`.<br>   The entries of `dig` are unique."""<br><br>    adj = {pair[0]: pair for pair in pairs}<br>    result = []<br>    start = pairs[0][0]<br><br>    while adj:<br>        pair = adj.pop(start)<br>        result.append(pair)<br>        start = pair[1]<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1620.txt
> def canArrange(arr, k):<br>    """You are given an array of network towers `towers`, where `towers[i] = [xi, yi, qi]` denotes the `ith` network tower with location `(xi, yi)` and quality factor `qi`. All the coordinates are integral coordinates on the X-Y plane, and the distance between the two coordinates is the Euclidean distance.<br><br>You are also given an integer `radius` where a tower is reachable if the distance is less than or equal to `radius`. Outside that distance, the signal becomes garbled, and the tower is not reachable.<br><br>The signal quality of the `ith` tower at a coordinate `(x, y)` is calculated with the formula `⌊qi / (1 + d)⌋`, where `d` is the distance between the tower and the coordinate. The network quality at a coordinate is the sum of the signal qualities from all the reachable towers.<br><br>Return _the array_ `[cx, cy]` _representing the integral coordinate_ `(cx, cy)` _where the network quality is maximum. If there are multiple coordinates with the same network quality, return the lexicographically minimum non-negative coordinate._<br><br>Note:<br><br>   A coordinate `(x1, y1)` is lexicographically smaller than `(x2, y2)` if either:<br>       `x1 < x2`, or<br>       `x1 == x2` and `y1 < y2`.<br>   `⌊val⌋` is the greatest integer less than or equal to `val` (the floor function).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[1,2,5\],\[2,1,7\],\[3,1,9\]\], radius = 2<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br>Explanation: At coordinate (2, 1) the total quality is 13.<br>- Quality of 7 from (2, 1) results in ⌊7 / (1 + sqrt(0)⌋ = ⌊7⌋ = 7<br>- Quality of 5 from (1, 2) results in ⌊5 / (1 + sqrt(2)⌋ = ⌊2.07⌋ = 2<br>- Quality of 9 from (3, 1) results in ⌊9 / (1 + sqrt(1)⌋ = ⌊4.5⌋ = 4<br>No other coordinate has a higher network quality.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[23,11,21\]\], radius = 9<br>Output: \[23,11\]<br>Explanation: Since there is only one tower, the network quality is highest right at the tower's location.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[1,2,13\],\[2,1,7\],\[0,1,9\]\], radius = 2<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: Coordinate (1, 2) has the highest network quality.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= towers.length <= 50`<br>   `towers[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi, qi <= 50`<br>   `1 <= radius <= 50`"""<br><br>    counts = [0]  k<br>    for num in arr:<br>        counts[(num % k + k) % k] += 1<br>    if counts[0] % 2 != 0:<br>        return False<br>    for i in range(1, k // 2 + 1):<br>        if counts[i] != counts[k - i]:<br>            return False<br>    return True

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1499.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given an array `points` containing the coordinates of points on a 2D plane, sorted by the x-values, where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` such that `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`. You are also given an integer `k`.<br><br>Return _the maximum value of the equation_ `yi + yj + |xi - xj|` where `|xi - xj| <= k` and `1 <= i < j <= points.length`.<br><br>It is guaranteed that there exists at least one pair of points that satisfy the constraint `|xi - xj| <= k`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[2,0\],\[5,10\],\[6,-10\]\], k = 1<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The first two points satisfy the condition |xi - xj| <= 1 and if we calculate the equation we get 3 + 0 + |1 - 2| = 4. Third and fourth points also satisfy the condition and give a value of 10 + -10 + |5 - 6| = 1.<br>No other pairs satisfy the condition, so we return the max of 4 and 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[3,0\],\[9,2\]\], k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Only the first two points have an absolute difference of 3 or less in the x-values, and give the value of 0 + 0 + |0 - 3| = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= points.length <= 105`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-108 <= xi, yi <= 108`<br>   `0 <= k <= 2  108`<br>   `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`<br>   `xi` form a strictly increasing sequence."""<br><br><br>def max_performance(n, k, speed, efficiency):<br>    engineers = sorted(zip(efficiency, speed), reverse=True)<br><br>    result = 0<br>    sum_speed = 0<br>    min_heap = []<br>    for e, s in engineers:<br>        if len(min_heap) = k:<br>            sum_speed -= heapq.heappop(min_heap)<br><br>        heapq.heappush(min_heap, s)<br>        sum_speed += s<br>        result = max(result, e  sum_speed)<br><br>    return result % (109 + 7)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_764.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """You are given an integer `n`. You have an `n x n` binary grid `grid` with all values initially `1`'s except for some indices given in the array `mines`. The `ith` element of the array `mines` is defined as `mines[i] = [xi, yi]` where `grid[xi][yi] == 0`.<br><br>Return _the order of the largest axis-aligned plus sign of_ 1_'s contained in_ `grid`. If there is none, return `0`.<br><br>An axis-aligned plus sign of `1`'s of order `k` has some center `grid[r][c] == 1` along with four arms of length `k - 1` going up, down, left, and right, and made of `1`'s. Note that there could be `0`'s or `1`'s beyond the arms of the plus sign, only the relevant area of the plus sign is checked for `1`'s.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, mines = \[\[4,2\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: In the above grid, the largest plus sign can only be of order 2. One of them is shown.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, mines = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no plus sign, so return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 500`<br>   `1 <= mines.length <= 5000`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi < n`<br>   All the pairs `(xi, yi)` are unique."""<br><br><br>class Node:<br>    def __init__(self, val=None, children=None):<br>        self.val = val<br>        self.children = children if children is not None else []<br><br>def levelOrder(root):<br>    result = []<br><br>    if not root:<br>        return result<br><br>    toVisit = deque([root])<br><br>    while toVisit:<br>        size = len(toVisit)<br>        level = []<br><br>        for _ in range(size):<br>            currentNode = toVisit.popleft()<br>            level.append(currentNode.val)<br><br>            for child in currentNode.children:<br>                toVisit.append(child)<br><br>        result.append(level)<br><br>    return result

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2497.txt
> def max_star_sum(vals, edges, k):<br>    """There is an undirected graph consisting of `n` nodes numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `vals` of length `n` where `vals[i]` denotes the value of the `ith` node.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi.`<br><br>A star graph is a subgraph of the given graph having a center node containing `0` or more neighbors. In other words, it is a subset of edges of the given graph such that there exists a common node for all edges.<br><br>The image below shows star graphs with `3` and `4` neighbors respectively, centered at the blue node.<br><br>The star sum is the sum of the values of all the nodes present in the star graph.<br><br>Given an integer `k`, return _the maximum star sum of a star graph containing at most_ `k` _edges._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: vals = \[1,2,3,4,10,-10,-20\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\]\], k = 2<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>The star graph with the maximum star sum is denoted by blue. It is centered at 3 and includes its neighbors 1 and 4.<br>It can be shown it is not possible to get a star graph with a sum greater than 16.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: vals = \[-5\], edges = \[\], k = 0<br>Output: -5<br>Explanation: There is only one possible star graph, which is node 0 itself.<br>Hence, we return -5.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == vals.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= vals[i] <= 104`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(n  (n - 1) / 2``, 105)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `0 <= k <= n - 1`"""<br><br>    adj = [[] for _ in range(len(vals))]<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        adj[edge[0]].append(vals[edge[1]])<br>        adj[edge[1]].append(vals[edge[0]])<br><br>    ans = float("-inf")<br>    for i in range(len(vals)):<br>        adj[i].sort(reverse=True)<br>        ans = max(ans, vals[i] + sum(adj[i][:k]))<br><br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_529.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """Let's play the minesweeper game ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minesweeper_(video_game)), [online game](http://minesweeperonline.com))!<br><br>You are given an `m x n` char matrix `board` representing the game board where:<br><br>   `'M'` represents an unrevealed mine,<br>   `'E'` represents an unrevealed empty square,<br>   `'B'` represents a revealed blank square that has no adjacent mines (i.e., above, below, left, right, and all 4 diagonals),<br>   digit (`'1'` to `'8'`) represents how many mines are adjacent to this revealed square, and<br>   `'X'` represents a revealed mine.<br><br>You are also given an integer array `click` where `click = [clickr, clickc]` represents the next click position among all the unrevealed squares (`'M'` or `'E'`).<br><br>Return _the board after revealing this position according to the following rules_:<br><br>1.  If a mine `'M'` is revealed, then the game is over. You should change it to `'X'`.<br>2.  If an empty square `'E'` with no adjacent mines is revealed, then change it to a revealed blank `'B'` and all of its adjacent unrevealed squares should be revealed recursively.<br>3.  If an empty square `'E'` with at least one adjacent mine is revealed, then change it to a digit (`'1'` to `'8'`) representing the number of adjacent mines.<br>4.  Return the board when no more squares will be revealed.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[ "E ", "E ", "E ", "E ", "E "\],\[ "E ", "E ", "M ", "E ", "E "\],\[ "E ", "E ", "E ", "E ", "E "\],\[ "E ", "E ", "E ", "E ", "E "\]\], click = \[3,0\]<br>Output: \[\[ "B ", "1 ", "E ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "M ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "1 ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "B ", "B ", "B ", "B "\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[ "B ", "1 ", "E ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "M ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "1 ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "B ", "B ", "B ", "B "\]\], click = \[1,2\]<br>Output: \[\[ "B ", "1 ", "E ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "X ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "1 ", "1 ", "1 ", "B "\],\[ "B ", "B ", "B ", "B ", "B "\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == board.length`<br>   `n == board[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `board[i][j]` is either `'M'`, `'E'`, `'B'`, or a digit from `'1'` to `'8'`.<br>   `click.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= clickr < m`<br>   `0 <= clickc < n`<br>   `board[clickr][clickc]` is either `'M'` or `'E'`."""<br><br><br>def reveal(board: List[List[str]], row: int, col: int, directions: List[List[int]]) - None:<br>    if row < 0 or row = len(board) or col < 0 or col = len(board[0]) or board[row][col] != 'E':<br>        return<br><br>    mines = 0<br>    for dir in directions:<br>        newRow, newCol = row + dir[0], col + dir[1]<br>        if newRow = 0 and newRow < len(board) and newCol = 0 and newCol < len(board[0]) and board[newRow][newCol] == 'M':<br>            mines += 1<br><br>    if mines  0:<br>        board[row][col] = str(mines)<br>    else:<br>        board[row][col] = 'B'<br>        for dir in directions:<br>            reveal(board, row + dir[0], col + dir[1], directions)<br><br>def updateBoard(board: List[List[str]], click: List[int]) - List[List[str]]:<br>    row, col = click<br><br>    if board[row][col] == 'M':<br>        board[row][col] = 'X'<br>    else:<br>        directions = [[1, 0], [1, -1], [0, -1], [-1, -1], [-1, 0], [-1, 1], [0, 1], [1, 1]]<br>        reveal(board, row, col, directions)<br><br>    return board

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_547.txt
> def findCircleNum(isConnected):<br>    """There are `n` cities. Some of them are connected, while some are not. If city `a` is connected directly with city `b`, and city `b` is connected directly with city `c`, then city `a` is connected indirectly with city `c`.<br><br>A province is a group of directly or indirectly connected cities and no other cities outside of the group.<br><br>You are given an `n x n` matrix `isConnected` where `isConnected[i][j] = 1` if the `ith` city and the `jth` city are directly connected, and `isConnected[i][j] = 0` otherwise.<br><br>Return _the total number of provinces_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: isConnected = \[\[1,1,0\],\[1,1,0\],\[0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: isConnected = \[\[1,0,0\],\[0,1,0\],\[0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`<br>   `n == isConnected.length`<br>   `n == isConnected[i].length`<br>   `isConnected[i][j]` is `1` or `0`.<br>   `isConnected[i][i] == 1`<br>   `isConnected[i][j] == isConnected[j][i]`"""<br><br>    def dfs(isConnected, visited, i):<br>        visited[i] = True<br>        for j in range(len(isConnected)):<br>            if isConnected[i][j] == 1 and not visited[j]:<br>                dfs(isConnected, visited, j)<br><br>    provinces = 0<br>    visited = [False]  len(isConnected)<br>    for i in range(len(isConnected)):<br>        if not visited[i]:<br>            dfs(isConnected, visited, i)<br>            provinces += 1<br>    return provinces

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_695.txt
> def maxAreaOfIsland(grid):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` binary matrix `grid`. An island is a group of `1`'s (representing land) connected 4-directionally (horizontal or vertical.) You may assume all four edges of the grid are surrounded by water.<br><br>The area of an island is the number of cells with a value `1` in the island.<br><br>Return _the maximum area of an island in_ `grid`. If there is no island, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,1,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,0,1,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The answer is not 11, because the island must be connected 4-directionally.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    def dfs(i, j):<br>        if i < 0 or i = len(grid) or j < 0 or j = len(grid[0]) or grid[i][j] == 0:<br>            return 0<br>        grid[i][j] = 0<br>        return 1 + dfs(i-1, j) + dfs(i+1, j) + dfs(i, j-1) + dfs(i, j+1)<br><br>    max_area = 0<br>    for i in range(len(grid)):<br>        for j in range(len(grid[0])):<br>            if grid[i][j]:<br>                max_area = max(max_area, dfs(i, j))<br>    return max_area

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_994.txt
> def prisonAfterNDays(cells, n):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` `grid` where each cell can have one of three values:<br><br>   `0` representing an empty cell,<br>   `1` representing a fresh orange, or<br>   `2` representing a rotten orange.<br><br>Every minute, any fresh orange that is 4-directionally adjacent to a rotten orange becomes rotten.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of minutes that must elapse until no cell has a fresh orange_. If _this is impossible, return_ `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[2,1,1\],\[1,1,0\],\[0,1,1\]\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[2,1,1\],\[0,1,1\],\[1,0,1\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: The orange in the bottom left corner (row 2, column 0) is never rotten, because rotting only happens 4-directionally.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Since there are already no fresh oranges at minute 0, the answer is just 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 10`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is `0`, `1`, or `2`."""<br><br>    n = n % 14 if n % 14 != 0 else 14 # Pattern repeats every 14 days<br><br>    for _ in range(n):<br>        temp = [0]  8<br>        for i in range(1, 7):<br>            temp[i] = int(cells[i - 1] == cells[i + 1])<br>        cells = temp<br><br>    return cells
