# Query `102`

## Original Question

*There are `n` rings and each ring is either red, green, or blue. The rings are distributed across ten rods labeled from `0` to `9`.

You are given a string `rings` of length `2n` that describes the `n` rings that are placed onto the rods. Every two characters in `rings` forms a color-position pair that is used to describe each ring where:

   The first character of the `ith` pair denotes the `ith` ring's color (`'R'`, `'G'`, `'B'`).
   The second character of the `ith` pair denotes the rod that the `ith` ring is placed on (`'0'` to `'9'`).

For example, `"R3G2B1 "` describes `n == 3` rings: a red ring placed onto the rod labeled 3, a green ring placed onto the rod labeled 2, and a blue ring placed onto the rod labeled 1.

Return _the number of rods that have all three colors of rings on them._

Example 1:

Input: rings =  "B0B6G0R6R0R6G9 "
Output: 1
Explanation: 
- The rod labeled 0 holds 3 rings with all colors: red, green, and blue.
- The rod labeled 6 holds 3 rings, but it only has red and blue.
- The rod labeled 9 holds only a green ring.
Thus, the number of rods with all three colors is 1.

Example 2:

Input: rings =  "B0R0G0R9R0B0G0 "
Output: 1
Explanation: 
- The rod labeled 0 holds 6 rings with all colors: red, green, and blue.
- The rod labeled 9 holds only a red ring.
Thus, the number of rods with all three colors is 1.

Example 3:

Input: rings =  "G4 "
Output: 0
Explanation: 
Only one ring is given. Thus, no rods have all three colors.

Constraints:

   `rings.length == 2  n`
   `1 <= n <= 100`
   `rings[i]` where `i` is even is either `'R'`, `'G'`, or `'B'` (0-indexed).
   `rings[i]` where `i` is odd is a digit from `'0'` to `'9'` (0-indexed).*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0010
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2226.txt
> def count_rods_with_all_colors(rings: str) - int:<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `candies`. Each element in the array denotes a pile of candies of size `candies[i]`. You can divide each pile into any number of sub piles, but you cannot merge two piles together.<br><br>You are also given an integer `k`. You should allocate piles of candies to `k` children such that each child gets the same number of candies. Each child can take at most one pile of candies and some piles of candies may go unused.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of candies each child can get._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: candies = \[5,8,6\], k = 3<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: We can divide candies\[1\] into 2 piles of size 5 and 3, and candies\[2\] into 2 piles of size 5 and 1. We now have five piles of candies of sizes 5, 5, 3, 5, and 1. We can allocate the 3 piles of size 5 to 3 children. It can be proven that each child cannot receive more than 5 candies.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: candies = \[2,5\], k = 11<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are 11 children but only 7 candies in total, so it is impossible to ensure each child receives at least one candy. Thus, each child gets no candy and the answer is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= candies.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= candies[i] <= 107`<br>   `1 <= k <= 1012`"""<br><br>    rod_colors = [0]  10<br><br>    for i in range(0, len(rings), 2):<br>        color = ord(rings[i]) - ord('A')<br>        rod = int(rings[i + 1])<br><br>        rod_colors[rod] |= (1 << color)<br><br>    return rod_colors.count(7)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1547.txt
> def destCity(paths):<br>    """Given a wooden stick of length `n` units. The stick is labelled from `0` to `n`. For example, a stick of length 6 is labelled as follows:<br><br>Given an integer array `cuts` where `cuts[i]` denotes a position you should perform a cut at.<br><br>You should perform the cuts in order, you can change the order of the cuts as you wish.<br><br>The cost of one cut is the length of the stick to be cut, the total cost is the sum of costs of all cuts. When you cut a stick, it will be split into two smaller sticks (i.e. the sum of their lengths is the length of the stick before the cut). Please refer to the first example for a better explanation.<br><br>Return _the minimum total cost_ of the cuts.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 7, cuts = \[1,3,4,5\]<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: Using cuts order = \[1, 3, 4, 5\] as in the input leads to the following scenario:<br> <br>The first cut is done to a rod of length 7 so the cost is 7. The second cut is done to a rod of length 6 (i.e. the second part of the first cut), the third is done to a rod of length 4 and the last cut is to a rod of length 3. The total cost is 7 + 6 + 4 + 3 = 20.<br>Rearranging the cuts to be \[3, 5, 1, 4\] for example will lead to a scenario with total cost = 16 (as shown in the example photo 7 + 4 + 3 + 2 = 16).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 9, cuts = \[5,6,1,4,2\]<br>Output: 22<br>Explanation: If you try the given cuts ordering the cost will be 25.<br>There are much ordering with total cost <= 25, for example, the order \[4, 6, 5, 2, 1\] has total cost = 22 which is the minimum possible.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 106`<br>   `1 <= cuts.length <= min(n - 1, 100)`<br>   `1 <= cuts[i] <= n - 1`<br>   All the integers in `cuts` array are distinct."""<br><br>    starting_cities = set()<br>    <br>    for path in paths:<br>        starting_cities.add(path[0])<br><br>    for path in paths:<br>        if path[1] not in starting_cities:<br>            return path[1]<br><br>    return ""

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_956.txt
> def numMusicPlaylists(n, goal, k):<br>    """You are installing a billboard and want it to have the largest height. The billboard will have two steel supports, one on each side. Each steel support must be an equal height.<br><br>You are given a collection of `rods` that can be welded together. For example, if you have rods of lengths `1`, `2`, and `3`, you can weld them together to make a support of length `6`.<br><br>Return _the largest possible height of your billboard installation_. If you cannot support the billboard, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: rods = \[1,2,3,6\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: We have two disjoint subsets {1,2,3} and {6}, which have the same sum = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: rods = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\]<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: We have two disjoint subsets {2,3,5} and {4,6}, which have the same sum = 10.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: rods = \[1,2\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The billboard cannot be supported, so we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= rods.length <= 20`<br>   `1 <= rods[i] <= 1000`<br>   `sum(rods[i]) <= 5000`"""<br><br>    MOD = 1000000007<br>    dp = [[0]  (n + 1) for _ in range(goal + 1)]<br>    dp[0][0] = 1<br>    for i in range(1, goal + 1):<br>        for j in range(1, n + 1):<br>            dp[i][j] = (dp[i - 1][j - 1]  (n - (j - 1)) % MOD + dp[i - 1][j]  max(0, j - k) % MOD) % MOD<br>    return dp[goal][n]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/csn_python_train_51543.txt
> def html5_parse_legacy_color(input):<br>    """<br>    Apply the legacy color parsing algorithm from section 2.4.6 of<br>    HTML5.<br><br>    """<br>    # 1. Let input be the string being parsed.<br>    if not isinstance(input, unicode):<br>        raise ValueError(<br>            u"HTML5 legacy color parsing requires a Unicode string as input."<br>        )<br><br>    # 2. If input is the empty string, then return an error.<br>    if input == "":<br>        raise ValueError(<br>            u"HTML5 legacy color parsing forbids empty string as a value."<br>        )<br><br>    # 3. Strip leading and trailing whitespace from input.<br>    input = input.strip()<br><br>    # 4. If input is an ASCII case-insensitive match for the string<br>    #    "transparent", then return an error.<br>    if input.lower() == u"transparent":<br>        raise ValueError(<br>            u'HTML5 legacy color parsing forbids "transparent" as a value.'<br>        )<br><br>    # 5. If input is an ASCII case-insensitive match for one of the<br>    #    keywords listed in the SVG color keywords section of the CSS3<br>    #    Color specification, then return the simple color<br>    #    corresponding to that keyword.<br>    keyword_hex = CSS3_NAMES_TO_HEX.get(input.lower())<br>    if keyword_hex is not None:<br>        return html5_parse_simple_color(keyword_hex)<br><br>    # 6. If input is four characters long, and the first character in<br>    #    input is a "#" (U+0023) character, and the last three<br>    #    characters of input are all ASCII hex digits, then run these<br>    #    substeps:<br>    if len(input) == 4 and \<br>       input.startswith(u'#') and \<br>       all(c in string.hexdigits for c in input[1:]):<br>        # 1. Let result be a simple color.<br>        #<br>        # 2. Interpret the second character of input as a hexadecimal<br>        #    digit; let the red component of result be the resulting<br>        #    number multiplied by 17.<br>        #<br>        # 3. Interpret the third character of input as a hexadecimal<br>        #    digit; let the green component of result be the resulting<br>        #    number multiplied by 17.<br>        #<br>        # 4. Interpret the fourth character of input as a hexadecimal<br>        #    digit; let the blue component of result be the resulting<br>        #    number multiplied by 17.<br>        result = HTML5SimpleColor(<br>            int(input[1], 16)  17,<br>            int(input[2], 16)  17,<br>            int(input[3], 16)  17<br>        )<br><br>        # 5. Return result.<br>        return result<br><br>    # 7. Replace any characters in input that have a Unicode code<br>    #    point greater than U+FFFF (i.e. any characters that are not<br>    #    in the basic multilingual plane) with the two-character<br>    #    string "00".<br><br>    # This one's a bit weird due to the existence of multiple internal<br>    # Unicode string representations in different versions and builds<br>    # of Python.<br>    #<br>    # From Python 2.2 through 3.2, Python could be compiled with<br>    # "narrow" or "wide" Unicode strings (see PEP 261). Narrow builds<br>    # handled Unicode strings with two-byte characters and surrogate<br>    # pairs for non-BMP code points. Wide builds handled Unicode<br>    # strings with four-byte characters and no surrogates. This means<br>    # ord() is only sufficient to identify a non-BMP character on a<br>    # wide build.<br>    #<br>    # Starting with Python 3.3, the internal string representation<br>    # (see PEP 393) is now dynamic, and Python chooses an encoding --<br>    # either latin-1, UCS-2 or UCS-4 -- wide enough to handle the<br>    # highest code point in the string.<br>    #<br>    # The code below bypasses all of that for a consistently effective<br>    # method: encode the string to little-endian UTF-32, then perform<br>    # a binary unpack of it as four-byte integers. Those integers will<br>    # be the Unicode code points, and from there filtering out non-BMP<br>    # code points is easy.<br>    encoded_input = input.encode('utf_32_le')<br><br>    # Format string is '<' (for little-endian byte order), then a<br>    # sequence of 'L' characters (for 4-byte unsigned long integer)<br>    # equal to the length of the original string, which is also<br>    # one-fourth the encoded length.  For example, for a six-character<br>    # input the generated format string will be '<LLLLLL'.<br>    format_string = '<' + ('L'  (int(len(encoded_input) / 4)))<br>    codepoints = struct.unpack(format_string, encoded_input)<br>    input = ''.join(u'00' if c  0xffff<br>                    else unichr(c)<br>                    for c in codepoints)<br><br>    # 8. If input is longer than 128 characters, truncate input,<br>    #    leaving only the first 128 characters.<br>    if len(input)  128:<br>        input = input[:128]<br><br>    # 9. If the first character in input is a "#" (U+0023) character,<br>    #    remove it.<br>    if input.startswith(u'#'):<br>        input = input[1:]<br><br>    # 10. Replace any character in input that is not an ASCII hex<br>    #     digit with the character "0" (U+0030).<br>    if any(c for c in input if c not in string.hexdigits):<br>        input = ''.join(c if c in string.hexdigits else u'0' for c in input)<br><br>    # 11. While input's length is zero or not a multiple of three,<br>    #     append a "0" (U+0030) character to input.<br>    while (len(input) == 0) or (len(input) % 3 != 0):<br>        input += u'0'<br><br>    # 12. Split input into three strings of equal length, to obtain<br>    #     three components. Let length be the length of those<br>    #     components (one third the length of input).<br>    length = int(len(input) / 3)<br>    red = input[:length]<br>    green = input[length:length2]<br>    blue = input[length2:]<br><br>    # 13. If length is greater than 8, then remove the leading<br>    #     length-8 characters in each component, and let length be 8.<br>    if length  8:<br>        red, green, blue = (red[length-8:],<br>                            green[length-8:],<br>                            blue[length-8:])<br>        length = 8<br><br>    # 14. While length is greater than two and the first character in<br>    #     each component is a "0" (U+0030) character, remove that<br>    #     character and reduce length by one.<br>    while (length  2) and (red[0] == u'0' and<br>                            green[0] == u'0' and<br>                            blue[0] == u'0'):<br>        red, green, blue = (red[1:],<br>                            green[1:],<br>                            blue[1:])<br>        length -= 1<br><br>    # 15. If length is still greater than two, truncate each<br>    #     component, leaving only the first two characters in each.<br>    if length  2:<br>        red, green, blue = (red[:2],<br>                            green[:2],<br>                            blue[:2])<br><br>    # 16. Let result be a simple color.<br>    #<br>    # 17. Interpret the first component as a hexadecimal number; let<br>    #     the red component of result be the resulting number.<br>    #<br>    # 18. Interpret the second component as a hexadecimal number; let<br>    #     the green component of result be the resulting number.<br>    #<br>    # 19. Interpret the third component as a hexadecimal number; let<br>    #     the blue component of result be the resulting number.<br>    #<br>    # 20. Return result.<br>    return HTML5SimpleColor(<br>        int(red, 16),<br>        int(green, 16),<br>        int(blue, 16)<br>    )

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2509.txt
> def length_of_cycle(n, queries):<br>    """You are given an integer `n`. There is a complete binary tree with `2n - 1` nodes. The root of that tree is the node with the value `1`, and every node with a value `val` in the range `[1, 2n - 1 - 1]` has two children where:<br><br>   The left node has the value `2  val`, and<br>   The right node has the value `2  val + 1`.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `queries` of length `m`, where `queries[i] = [ai, bi]`. For each query, solve the following problem:<br><br>1.  Add an edge between the nodes with values `ai` and `bi`.<br>2.  Find the length of the cycle in the graph.<br>3.  Remove the added edge between nodes with values `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>Note that:<br><br>   A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the same node, and each edge in the path is visited only once.<br>   The length of a cycle is the number of edges visited in the cycle.<br>   There could be multiple edges between two nodes in the tree after adding the edge of the query.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `m` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, queries = \[\[5,3\],\[4,7\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: \[4,5,3\]<br>Explanation: The diagrams above show the tree of 23 - 1 nodes. Nodes colored in red describe the nodes in the cycle after adding the edge.<br>- After adding the edge between nodes 3 and 5, the graph contains a cycle of nodes \[5,2,1,3\]. Thus answer to the first query is 4. We delete the added edge and process the next query.<br>- After adding the edge between nodes 4 and 7, the graph contains a cycle of nodes \[4,2,1,3,7\]. Thus answer to the second query is 5. We delete the added edge and process the next query.<br>- After adding the edge between nodes 2 and 3, the graph contains a cycle of nodes \[2,1,3\]. Thus answer to the third query is 3. We delete the added edge.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, queries = \[\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[2\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the tree of 22 - 1 nodes. Nodes colored in red describe the nodes in the cycle after adding the edge.<br>- After adding the edge between nodes 1 and 2, the graph contains a cycle of nodes \[2,1\]. Thus answer for the first query is 2. We delete the added edge.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 30`<br>   `m == queries.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= 2n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    for A, B in queries:<br>        depth_A, depth_B = 0, 0<br>        while A != B:<br>            if A < B:<br>                A, B = B, A<br>            A = 1<br>            depth_A += 1<br>        result.append(depth_A + depth_B)<br>    return result


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1941.txt
> def make_string_sorted(s):<br>    """Given a string `s`, return `true` _if_ `s` _is a good string, or_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>A string `s` is good if all the characters that appear in `s` have the same number of occurrences (i.e., the same frequency).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "abacbc "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The characters that appear in s are 'a', 'b', and 'c'. All characters occur 2 times in s.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "aaabb "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The characters that appear in s are 'a' and 'b'.<br>'a' occurs 3 times while 'b' occurs 2 times, which is not the same number of times.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 1000`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters."""<br><br>    mod = 1000000007<br>    n = len(s)<br>    fact = [1]  (n + 1)<br>    inv = [1]  (n + 1)<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        fact[i] = fact[i - 1]  i % mod<br>        inv[i] = inv[i - 1]  (mod - mod // i) % mod<br>        <br>    ans = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        less_than = 0<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            if s[j] < s[i]:<br>                less_than += 1<br>        ans = (ans + less_than  fact[n - i - 1]) % mod<br>    return ans
