# Query `104`

## Original Question

*Fruits are available at some positions on an infinite x-axis. You are given a 2D integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i] = [positioni, amounti]` depicts `amounti` fruits at the position `positioni`. `fruits` is already sorted by `positioni` in ascending order, and each `positioni` is unique.

You are also given an integer `startPos` and an integer `k`. Initially, you are at the position `startPos`. From any position, you can either walk to the left or right. It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis, and you can walk at most `k` steps in total. For every position you reach, you harvest all the fruits at that position, and the fruits will disappear from that position.

Return _the maximum total number of fruits you can harvest_.

Example 1:

Input: fruits = \[\[2,8\],\[6,3\],\[8,6\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4
Output: 9
Explanation: 
The optimal way is to:
- Move right to position 6 and harvest 3 fruits
- Move right to position 8 and harvest 6 fruits
You moved 3 steps and harvested 3 + 6 = 9 fruits in total.

Example 2:

Input: fruits = \[\[0,9\],\[4,1\],\[5,7\],\[6,2\],\[7,4\],\[10,9\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4
Output: 14
Explanation: 
You can move at most k = 4 steps, so you cannot reach position 0 nor 10.
The optimal way is to:
- Harvest the 7 fruits at the starting position 5
- Move left to position 4 and harvest 1 fruit
- Move right to position 6 and harvest 2 fruits
- Move right to position 7 and harvest 4 fruits
You moved 1 + 3 = 4 steps and harvested 7 + 1 + 2 + 4 = 14 fruits in total.

Example 3:

Input: fruits = \[\[0,3\],\[6,4\],\[8,5\]\], startPos = 3, k = 2
Output: 0
Explanation:
You can move at most k = 2 steps and cannot reach any position with fruits.

Constraints:

   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`
   `fruits[i].length == 2`
   `0 <= startPos, positioni <= 2  105`
   `positioni-1 < positioni` for any `i > 0` (0-indexed)
   `1 <= amounti <= 104`
   `0 <= k <= 2  105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0169
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1693
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0169
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2400.txt
> MOD = 109 + 7<br>    """You are given two positive integers `startPos` and `endPos`. Initially, you are standing at position `startPos` on an infinite number line. With one step, you can move either one position to the left, or one position to the right.<br><br>Given a positive integer `k`, return _the number of different ways to reach the position_ `endPos` _starting from_ `startPos`_, such that you perform exactly_ `k` _steps_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two ways are considered different if the order of the steps made is not exactly the same.<br><br>Note that the number line includes negative integers.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: startPos = 1, endPos = 2, k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can reach position 2 from 1 in exactly 3 steps in three ways:<br>- 1 - 2 - 3 - 2.<br>- 1 - 2 - 1 - 2.<br>- 1 - 0 - 1 - 2.<br>It can be proven that no other way is possible, so we return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: startPos = 2, endPos = 5, k = 10<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: It is impossible to reach position 5 from position 2 in exactly 10 steps.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= startPos, endPos, k <= 1000`"""<br><br>MAX = 1001<br><br>def ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp):<br>    if k == 0: return 1 if startPos == endPos else 0<br>    if startPos < 0 or endPos < 0 or startPos = MAX or endPos = MAX: return 0<br>    <br>    if dp[startPos][k] != -1: return dp[startPos][k]<br>    <br>    left = ways(startPos - 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    right = ways(startPos + 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    <br>    dp[startPos][k] = (left + right) % MOD<br>    return dp[startPos][k]<br><br>def numberOfWays(startPos, endPos, k):<br>    dp = [[-1 for _ in range(k + 1)] for _ in range(MAX)]<br>    return ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2087.txt
> def minTotalCost(startPos, homePos, rowCosts, colCosts):<br>    """There is an `m x n` grid, where `(0, 0)` is the top-left cell and `(m - 1, n - 1)` is the bottom-right cell. You are given an integer array `startPos` where `startPos = [startrow, startcol]` indicates that initially, a robot is at the cell `(startrow, startcol)`. You are also given an integer array `homePos` where `homePos = [homerow, homecol]` indicates that its home is at the cell `(homerow, homecol)`.<br><br>The robot needs to go to its home. It can move one cell in four directions: left, right, up, or down, and it can not move outside the boundary. Every move incurs some cost. You are further given two 0-indexed integer arrays: `rowCosts` of length `m` and `colCosts` of length `n`.<br><br>   If the robot moves up or down into a cell whose row is `r`, then this move costs `rowCosts[r]`.<br>   If the robot moves left or right into a cell whose column is `c`, then this move costs `colCosts[c]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total cost for this robot to return home_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: startPos = \[1, 0\], homePos = \[2, 3\], rowCosts = \[5, 4, 3\], colCosts = \[8, 2, 6, 7\]<br>Output: 18<br>Explanation: One optimal path is that:<br>Starting from (1, 0)<br>- It goes down to (2, 0). This move costs rowCosts\[2\] = 3.<br>- It goes right to (2, 1). This move costs colCosts\[1\] = 2.<br>- It goes right to (2, 2). This move costs colCosts\[2\] = 6.<br>- It goes right to (2, 3). This move costs colCosts\[3\] = 7.<br>The total cost is 3 + 2 + 6 + 7 = 18<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: startPos = \[0, 0\], homePos = \[0, 0\], rowCosts = \[5\], colCosts = \[26\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The robot is already at its home. Since no moves occur, the total cost is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == rowCosts.length`<br>   `n == colCosts.length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= rowCosts[r], colCosts[c] <= 104`<br>   `startPos.length == 2`<br>   `homePos.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startrow, homerow < m`<br>   `0 <= startcol, homecol < n`"""<br><br>    row_difference = abs(startPos[0] - homePos[0])<br>    col_difference = abs(startPos[1] - homePos[1])<br><br>    row_cost = sum(rowCosts[min(startPos[0], homePos[0]):min(startPos[0], homePos[0]) + row_difference])<br>    col_cost = sum(colCosts[min(startPos[1], homePos[1]):min(startPos[1], homePos[1]) + col_difference])<br><br>    return row_cost + col_cost

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1776.txt
> def minOperations(nums, x):<br>    """There are `n` cars traveling at different speeds in the same direction along a one-lane road. You are given an array `cars` of length `n`, where `cars[i] = [positioni, speedi]` represents:<br><br>   `positioni` is the distance between the `ith` car and the beginning of the road in meters. It is guaranteed that `positioni < positioni+1`.<br>   `speedi` is the initial speed of the `ith` car in meters per second.<br><br>For simplicity, cars can be considered as points moving along the number line. Two cars collide when they occupy the same position. Once a car collides with another car, they unite and form a single car fleet. The cars in the formed fleet will have the same position and the same speed, which is the initial speed of the slowest car in the fleet.<br><br>Return an array `answer`, where `answer[i]` is the time, in seconds, at which the `ith` car collides with the next car, or `-1` if the car does not collide with the next car. Answers within `10-5` of the actual answers are accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: cars = \[\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[4,3\],\[7,2\]\]<br>Output: \[1.00000,-1.00000,3.00000,-1.00000\]<br>Explanation: After exactly one second, the first car will collide with the second car, and form a car fleet with speed 1 m/s. After exactly 3 seconds, the third car will collide with the fourth car, and form a car fleet with speed 2 m/s.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: cars = \[\[3,4\],\[5,4\],\[6,3\],\[9,1\]\]<br>Output: \[2.00000,1.00000,1.50000,-1.00000\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= cars.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= positioni, speedi <= 106`<br>   `positioni < positioni+1`"""<br><br>    total = sum(nums)<br>    target = total - x<br>    if target < 0:<br>        return -1<br><br>    maxLength = -1<br>    left = 0<br>    current_sum = 0<br><br>    for right in range(len(nums)):<br>        current_sum += nums[right]<br><br>        while current_sum  target:<br>            current_sum -= nums[left]<br>            left += 1<br><br>        if current_sum == target:<br>            maxLength = max(maxLength, right - left + 1)<br><br>    return -1 if maxLength == -1 else len(nums) - maxLength

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_871.txt
> def can_visit_all_rooms(rooms):<br>    """A car travels from a starting position to a destination which is `target` miles east of the starting position.<br><br>There are gas stations along the way. The gas stations are represented as an array `stations` where `stations[i] = [positioni, fueli]` indicates that the `ith` gas station is `positioni` miles east of the starting position and has `fueli` liters of gas.<br><br>The car starts with an infinite tank of gas, which initially has `startFuel` liters of fuel in it. It uses one liter of gas per one mile that it drives. When the car reaches a gas station, it may stop and refuel, transferring all the gas from the station into the car.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of refueling stops the car must make in order to reach its destination_. If it cannot reach the destination, return `-1`.<br><br>Note that if the car reaches a gas station with `0` fuel left, the car can still refuel there. If the car reaches the destination with `0` fuel left, it is still considered to have arrived.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 1, startFuel = 1, stations = \[\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: We can reach the target without refueling.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 100, startFuel = 1, stations = \[\[10,100\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We can not reach the target (or even the first gas station).<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 100, startFuel = 10, stations = \[\[10,60\],\[20,30\],\[30,30\],\[60,40\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: We start with 10 liters of fuel.<br>We drive to position 10, expending 10 liters of fuel.  We refuel from 0 liters to 60 liters of gas.<br>Then, we drive from position 10 to position 60 (expending 50 liters of fuel),<br>and refuel from 10 liters to 50 liters of gas.  We then drive to and reach the target.<br>We made 2 refueling stops along the way, so we return 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= target, startFuel <= 109`<br>   `0 <= stations.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= positioni < positioni+1 < target`<br>   `1 <= fueli < 109`"""<br><br>    visited = set()<br>    stack = [0]<br><br>    while stack:<br>        current_room = stack.pop()<br><br>        visited.add(current_room)<br><br>        for key in rooms[current_room]:<br>            if key not in visited:<br>                stack.append(key)<br><br>    return len(visited) == len(rooms)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2079.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """You want to water `n` plants in your garden with a watering can. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`. There is a river at `x = -1` that you can refill your watering can at.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. You will water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Water the plants in order from left to right.<br>   After watering the current plant, if you do not have enough water to completely water the next plant, return to the river to fully refill the watering can.<br>   You cannot refill the watering can early.<br><br>You are initially at the river (i.e., `x = -1`). It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and an integer `capacity` representing the watering can capacity, return _the number of steps needed to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacity = 5<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:<br>- Walk to plant 0 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 3 units of water.<br>- Walk to plant 1 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 1 unit of water.<br>- Since you cannot completely water plant 2, walk back to the river to refill (2 steps).<br>- Walk to plant 2 (3 steps) and water it. Watering can has 2 units of water.<br>- Since you cannot completely water plant 3, walk back to the river to refill (3 steps).<br>- Walk to plant 3 (4 steps) and water it.<br>Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 = 14.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[1,1,1,4,2,3\], capacity = 4<br>Output: 30<br>Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:<br>- Water plants 0, 1, and 2 (3 steps). Return to river (3 steps).<br>- Water plant 3 (4 steps). Return to river (4 steps).<br>- Water plant 4 (5 steps). Return to river (5 steps).<br>- Water plant 5 (6 steps).<br>Steps needed = 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 = 30.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\], capacity = 8<br>Output: 49<br>Explanation: You have to refill before watering each plant.<br>Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 + 6 + 7 = 49.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacity <= 109`"""<br><br><br>def deleteDuplicateFolder(paths):<br>    graph = defaultdict(set)<br>    count = defaultdict(int)<br><br>    for path in paths:<br>        serialized_path = ""<br>        for folder in path:<br>            serialized_path += "/" + folder<br>            graph[serialized_path].add(folder)<br><br>    for value in graph.values():<br>        count[str(value)] += 1<br><br>    ans = []<br>    for path in paths:<br>        serialized_path = ""<br>        duplicate = False<br>        for folder in path:<br>            serialized_path += "/" + folder<br>            if count[str(graph[serialized_path])]  1:<br>                duplicate = True<br>                break<br>        if not duplicate:<br>            ans.append(path)<br><br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 58, leetcode/leetcode_1383.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given two integers `n` and `k` and two integer arrays `speed` and `efficiency` both of length `n`. There are `n` engineers numbered from `1` to `n`. `speed[i]` and `efficiency[i]` represent the speed and efficiency of the `ith` engineer respectively.<br><br>Choose at most `k` different engineers out of the `n` engineers to form a team with the maximum performance.<br><br>The performance of a team is the sum of their engineers' speeds multiplied by the minimum efficiency among their engineers.<br><br>Return _the maximum performance of this team_. Since the answer can be a huge number, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, speed = \[2,10,3,1,5,8\], efficiency = \[5,4,3,9,7,2\], k = 2<br>Output: 60<br>Explanation: <br>We have the maximum performance of the team by selecting engineer 2 (with speed=10 and efficiency=4) and engineer 5 (with speed=5 and efficiency=7). That is, performance = (10 + 5) \ min(4, 7) = 60.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 6, speed = \[2,10,3,1,5,8\], efficiency = \[5,4,3,9,7,2\], k = 3<br>Output: 68<br>Explanation:<br>This is the same example as the first but k = 3. We can select engineer 1, engineer 2 and engineer 5 to get the maximum performance of the team. That is, performance = (2 + 10 + 5) \ min(5, 4, 7) = 68.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 6, speed = \[2,10,3,1,5,8\], efficiency = \[5,4,3,9,7,2\], k = 4<br>Output: 72<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= n <= 105`<br>   `speed.length == n`<br>   `efficiency.length == n`<br>   `1 <= speed[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= efficiency[i] <= 108`"""<br><br>from typing import List<br><br>def max_performance(n: int, k: int, speed: List[int], efficiency: List[int]) - int:<br>    engineers = sorted(zip(efficiency, speed), reverse=True)<br>    min_heap = []<br>    speed_sum = 0<br>    max_performance = 0<br><br>    for e, s in engineers:<br>        speed_sum += s<br>        heapq.heappush(min_heap, s)<br><br>        if len(min_heap)  k:<br>            speed_sum -= heapq.heappop(min_heap)<br><br>        max_performance = max(max_performance, speed_sum  e)<br><br>    return max_performance % (109 + 7)
