# Query `105`

## Original Question

*You are given an integer array `prices` representing the daily price history of a stock, where `prices[i]` is the stock price on the `ith` day.

A smooth descent period of a stock consists of one or more contiguous days such that the price on each day is lower than the price on the preceding day by exactly `1`. The first day of the period is exempted from this rule.

Return _the number of smooth descent periods_.

Example 1:

Input: prices = \[3,2,1,4\]
Output: 7
Explanation: There are 7 smooth descent periods:
\[3\], \[2\], \[1\], \[4\], \[3,2\], \[2,1\], and \[3,2,1\]
Note that a period with one day is a smooth descent period by the definition.

Example 2:

Input: prices = \[8,6,7,7\]
Output: 4
Explanation: There are 4 smooth descent periods: \[8\], \[6\], \[7\], and \[7\]
Note that \[8,6\] is not a smooth descent period as 8 - 6 ≠ 1.

Example 3:

Input: prices = \[1\]
Output: 1
Explanation: There is 1 smooth descent period: \[1\]

Constraints:

   `1 <= prices.length <= 105`
   `1 <= prices[i] <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0172
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1042
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0086
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2295.txt
> def min_race_time(tires, changeTime, numLaps):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array `nums` that consists of `n` distinct positive integers. Apply `m` operations to this array, where in the `ith` operation you replace the number `operations[i][0]` with `operations[i][1]`.<br><br>It is guaranteed that in the `ith` operation:<br><br>   `operations[i][0]` exists in `nums`.<br>   `operations[i][1]` does not exist in `nums`.<br><br>Return _the array obtained after applying all the operations_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,4,6\], operations = \[\[1,3\],\[4,7\],\[6,1\]\]<br>Output: \[3,2,7,1\]<br>Explanation: We perform the following operations on nums:<br>- Replace the number 1 with 3. nums becomes \[3,2,4,6\].<br>- Replace the number 4 with 7. nums becomes \[3,2,7,6\].<br>- Replace the number 6 with 1. nums becomes \[3,2,7,1\].<br>We return the final array \[3,2,7,1\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2\], operations = \[\[1,3\],\[2,1\],\[3,2\]\]<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br>Explanation: We perform the following operations to nums:<br>- Replace the number 1 with 3. nums becomes \[3,2\].<br>- Replace the number 2 with 1. nums becomes \[3,1\].<br>- Replace the number 3 with 2. nums becomes \[2,1\].<br>We return the array \[2,1\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `m == operations.length`<br>   `1 <= n, m <= 105`<br>   All the values of `nums` are distinct.<br>   `operations[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= nums[i], operations[i][0], operations[i][1] <= 106`<br>   `operations[i][0]` will exist in `nums` when applying the `ith` operation.<br>   `operations[i][1]` will not exist in `nums` when applying the `ith` operation."""<br><br>    n = len(tires)<br>    times = [fi + (numLaps - 1)  ri for fi, ri in tires]<br>    min_time = min(times) + (numLaps - 1)  changeTime<br>    <br>    for i in range(n):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if i != j:<br>                min_time = min(min_time, times[i] + times[j] - tires[i][0] + (numLaps - 2)  changeTime)<br>    return min_time

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1833.txt
> def largestAltitude(gain):<br>    """It is a sweltering summer day, and a boy wants to buy some ice cream bars.<br><br>At the store, there are `n` ice cream bars. You are given an array `costs` of length `n`, where `costs[i]` is the price of the `ith` ice cream bar in coins. The boy initially has `coins` coins to spend, and he wants to buy as many ice cream bars as possible.<br><br>Note: The boy can buy the ice cream bars in any order.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of ice cream bars the boy can buy with_ `coins` _coins._<br><br>You must solve the problem by counting sort.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: costs = \[1,3,2,4,1\], coins = 7<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The boy can buy ice cream bars at indices 0,1,2,4 for a total price of 1 + 3 + 2 + 1 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: costs = \[10,6,8,7,7,8\], coins = 5<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The boy cannot afford any of the ice cream bars.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: costs = \[1,6,3,1,2,5\], coins = 20<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The boy can buy all the ice cream bars for a total price of 1 + 6 + 3 + 1 + 2 + 5 = 18.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `costs.length == n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= costs[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= coins <= 108`"""<br><br>    max_altitude, current_altitude = 0, 0<br>    for i in gain:<br>        current_altitude += i<br>        max_altitude = max(max_altitude, current_altitude)<br>    return max_altitude

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2146.txt
> def can_place_word(board, word):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n` that represents a map of the items in a shop. The integers in the grid represent the following:<br><br>   `0` represents a wall that you cannot pass through.<br>   `1` represents an empty cell that you can freely move to and from.<br>   All other positive integers represent the price of an item in that cell. You may also freely move to and from these item cells.<br><br>It takes `1` step to travel between adjacent grid cells.<br><br>You are also given integer arrays `pricing` and `start` where `pricing = [low, high]` and `start = [row, col]` indicates that you start at the position `(row, col)` and are interested only in items with a price in the range of `[low, high]` (inclusive). You are further given an integer `k`.<br><br>You are interested in the positions of the `k` highest-ranked items whose prices are within the given price range. The rank is determined by the first of these criteria that is different:<br><br>1.  Distance, defined as the length of the shortest path from the `start` (shorter distance has a higher rank).<br>2.  Price (lower price has a higher rank, but it must be in the price range).<br>3.  The row number (smaller row number has a higher rank).<br>4.  The column number (smaller column number has a higher rank).<br><br>Return _the_ `k` _highest-ranked items within the price range sorted by their rank (highest to lowest)_. If there are fewer than `k` reachable items within the price range, return _all of them_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,2,0,1\],\[1,3,0,1\],\[0,2,5,1\]\], pricing = \[2,5\], start = \[0,0\], k = 3<br>Output: \[\[0,1\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Explanation: You start at (0,0).<br>With a price range of \[2,5\], we can take items from (0,1), (1,1), (2,1) and (2,2).<br>The ranks of these items are:<br>- (0,1) with distance 1<br>- (1,1) with distance 2<br>- (2,1) with distance 3<br>- (2,2) with distance 4<br>Thus, the 3 highest ranked items in the price range are (0,1), (1,1), and (2,1).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,2,0,1\],\[1,3,3,1\],\[0,2,5,1\]\], pricing = \[2,3\], start = \[2,3\], k = 2<br>Output: \[\[2,1\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Explanation: You start at (2,3).<br>With a price range of \[2,3\], we can take items from (0,1), (1,1), (1,2) and (2,1).<br>The ranks of these items are:<br>- (2,1) with distance 2, price 2<br>- (1,2) with distance 2, price 3<br>- (1,1) with distance 3<br>- (0,1) with distance 4<br>Thus, the 2 highest ranked items in the price range are (2,1) and (1,2).<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[0,0,1\],\[2,3,4\]\], pricing = \[2,3\], start = \[0,0\], k = 3<br>Output: \[\[2,1\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Explanation: You start at (0,0).<br>With a price range of \[2,3\], we can take items from (2,0) and (2,1). <br>The ranks of these items are: <br>- (2,1) with distance 5<br>- (2,0) with distance 6<br>Thus, the 2 highest ranked items in the price range are (2,1) and (2,0). <br>Note that k = 3 but there are only 2 reachable items within the price range.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= grid[i][j] <= 105`<br>   `pricing.length == 2`<br>   `2 <= low <= high <= 105`<br>   `start.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= row <= m - 1`<br>   `0 <= col <= n - 1`<br>   `grid[row][col]  0`<br>   `1 <= k <= m  n`"""<br><br>    m, n = len(board), len(board[0])<br>    for i in range(m):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if board[i][j] == word[0]:<br>                if check_word(board, word, i, j, 0, 1) or check_word(board, word, i, j, 1, 0):<br>                    return True<br>    return False<br><br>def check_word(board, word, i, j, di, dj):<br>    m, n = len(board), len(board[0])<br>    for k in range(len(word)):<br>        i += di<br>        j += dj<br>        if i < 0 or i = m or j < 0 or j = n:<br>            return False<br>        if k == 0 or k == len(word) - 1:<br>            if board[i][j] != word[k] and board[i][j] != ' ':<br>                return False<br>        if k  0 and k < len(word) - 1:<br>            if board[i][j] != word[k] and board[i][j] != ' ' and board[i][j] != '#':<br>                return False<br>    return True

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1475.txt
> class TreeNode:<br>    """You are given an integer array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of the `ith` item in a shop.<br><br>There is a special discount for items in the shop. If you buy the `ith` item, then you will receive a discount equivalent to `prices[j]` where `j` is the minimum index such that `j  i` and `prices[j] <= prices[i]`. Otherwise, you will not receive any discount at all.<br><br>Return an integer array `answer` where `answer[i]` is the final price you will pay for the `ith` item of the shop, considering the special discount.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: prices = \[8,4,6,2,3\]<br>Output: \[4,2,4,2,3\]<br>Explanation: <br>For item 0 with price\[0\]=8 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[1\]=4, therefore, the final price you will pay is 8 - 4 = 4.<br>For item 1 with price\[1\]=4 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[3\]=2, therefore, the final price you will pay is 4 - 2 = 2.<br>For item 2 with price\[2\]=6 you will receive a discount equivalent to prices\[3\]=2, therefore, the final price you will pay is 6 - 2 = 4.<br>For items 3 and 4 you will not receive any discount at all.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: prices = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Explanation: In this case, for all items, you will not receive any discount at all.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: prices = \[10,1,1,6\]<br>Output: \[9,0,1,6\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= prices[i] <= 1000`<br><br>The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node's key. The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys greater than the node's key. Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, x):<br>        self.val = x<br>        self.left = None<br>        self.right = None<br><br>def maxSumBST(root):<br>    def helper(node):<br>        if not node:<br>            return float('inf'), float('-inf'), 0, True<br><br>        left_min, left_max, left_sum, is_left_bst = helper(node.left)<br>        right_min, right_max, right_sum, is_right_bst = helper(node.right)<br><br>        if is_left_bst and is_right_bst and node.val  left_max and node.val < right_min:<br>            sum_ = node.val + left_sum + right_sum<br>            max_sum[0] = max(max_sum[0], sum_)<br>            return min(node.val, left_min), max(node.val, right_max), sum_, True<br><br>        return 0, 0, 0, False<br><br>    max_sum = [0]<br>    helper(root)<br>    return max_sum[0]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2288.txt
> def operations(num1, num2):<br>    """A sentence is a string of single-space separated words where each word can contain digits, lowercase letters, and the dollar sign `'$'`. A word represents a price if it is a sequence of digits preceded by a dollar sign.<br><br>   For example, `"$100 "`, `"$23 "`, and `"$6 "` represent prices while `"100 "`, `"$ "`, and `"$1e5 "` do not.<br><br>You are given a string `sentence` representing a sentence and an integer `discount`. For each word representing a price, apply a discount of `discount%` on the price and update the word in the sentence. All updated prices should be represented with exactly two decimal places.<br><br>Return _a string representing the modified sentence_.<br><br>Note that all prices will contain at most `10` digits.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: sentence =  "there are $1 $2 and 5$ candies in the shop ", discount = 50<br>Output:  "there are $0.50 $1.00 and 5$ candies in the shop "<br>Explanation: <br>The words which represent prices are  "$1 " and  "$2 ". <br>- A 50% discount on  "$1 " yields  "$0.50 ", so  "$1 " is replaced by  "$0.50 ".<br>- A 50% discount on  "$2 " yields  "$1 ". Since we need to have exactly 2 decimal places after a price, we replace  "$2 " with  "$1.00 ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: sentence =  "1 2 $3 4 $5 $6 7 8$ $9 $10$ ", discount = 100<br>Output:  "1 2 $0.00 4 $0.00 $0.00 7 8$ $0.00 $10$ "<br>Explanation: <br>Applying a 100% discount on any price will result in 0.<br>The words representing prices are  "$3 ",  "$5 ",  "$6 ", and  "$9 ".<br>Each of them is replaced by  "$0.00 ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= sentence.length <= 105`<br>   `sentence` consists of lowercase English letters, digits, `' '`, and `'$'`.<br>   `sentence` does not have leading or trailing spaces.<br>   All words in `sentence` are separated by a single space.<br>   All prices will be positive numbers without leading zeros.<br>   All prices will have at most `10` digits.<br>   `0 <= discount <= 100`"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    while num1 != 0 and num2 != 0:<br>        if num1 = num2:<br>            num1 -= num2<br>        else:<br>            num2 -= num1<br>        count += 1<br>    return count


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_713.txt
> def numSubarrayProductLessThanK(nums, k):<br>    """Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the number of contiguous subarrays where the product of all the elements in the subarray is strictly less than_ `k`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,5,2,6\], k = 100<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: The 8 subarrays that have product less than 100 are:<br>\[10\], \[5\], \[2\], \[6\], \[10, 5\], \[5, 2\], \[2, 6\], \[5, 2, 6\]<br>Note that \[10, 5, 2\] is not included as the product of 100 is not strictly less than k.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3\], k = 0<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 3  104`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= k <= 106`"""<br><br>    if k <= 1:<br>        return 0<br>    prod = 1<br>    count = 0<br>    left = 0<br>    for right in range(len(nums)):<br>        prod = nums[right]<br>        while prod = k:<br>            prod /= nums[left]<br>            left += 1<br>        count += right - left + 1<br>    return count

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 57, leetcode/leetcode_2348.txt
> def numberOfSubarraysWithZeroes(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the number of subarrays filled with_ `0`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,0,0,2,0,0,4\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>There are 4 occurrences of \[0\] as a subarray.<br>There are 2 occurrences of \[0,0\] as a subarray.<br>There is no occurrence of a subarray with a size more than 2 filled with 0. Therefore, we return 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,0,0,2,0,0\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>There are 5 occurrences of \[0\] as a subarray.<br>There are 3 occurrences of \[0,0\] as a subarray.<br>There is 1 occurrence of \[0,0,0\] as a subarray.<br>There is no occurrence of a subarray with a size more than 3 filled with 0. Therefore, we return 9.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,10,2019\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no subarray filled with 0. Therefore, we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    zero_count = 0<br><br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num == 0:<br>            zero_count += 1<br>            count += zero_count<br>        else:<br>            zero_count = 0<br><br>    return count
