# Query `106`

## Original Question

*Anti-theft security devices are activated inside a bank. You are given a 0-indexed binary string array `bank` representing the floor plan of the bank, which is an `m x n` 2D matrix. `bank[i]` represents the `ith` row, consisting of `'0'`s and `'1'`s. `'0'` means the cell is empty, while`'1'` means the cell has a security device.

There is one laser beam between any two security devices if both conditions are met:

   The two devices are located on two different rows: `r1` and `r2`, where `r1 < r2`.
   For each row `i` where `r1 < i < r2`, there are no security devices in the `ith` row.

Laser beams are independent, i.e., one beam does not interfere nor join with another.

Return _the total number of laser beams in the bank_.

Example 1:

Input: bank = \[ "011001 ", "000000 ", "010100 ", "001000 "\]
Output: 8
Explanation: Between each of the following device pairs, there is one beam. In total, there are 8 beams:
 \ bank\[0\]\[1\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]
 \ bank\[0\]\[1\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]
 \ bank\[0\]\[2\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]
 \ bank\[0\]\[2\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]
 \ bank\[0\]\[5\] -- bank\[2\]\[1\]
 \ bank\[0\]\[5\] -- bank\[2\]\[3\]
 \ bank\[2\]\[1\] -- bank\[3\]\[2\]
 \ bank\[2\]\[3\] -- bank\[3\]\[2\]
Note that there is no beam between any device on the 0th row with any on the 3rd row.
This is because the 2nd row contains security devices, which breaks the second condition.

Example 2:

Input: bank = \[ "000 ", "111 ", "000 "\]
Output: 0
Explanation: There does not exist two devices located on two different rows.

Constraints:

   `m == bank.length`
   `n == bank[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 500`
   `bank[i][j]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2100.txt
> def minNonZeroProduct(p):<br>    """You and a gang of thieves are planning on robbing a bank. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `security`, where `security[i]` is the number of guards on duty on the `ith` day. The days are numbered starting from `0`. You are also given an integer `time`.<br><br>The `ith` day is a good day to rob the bank if:<br><br>   There are at least `time` days before and after the `ith` day,<br>   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days before `i` are non-increasing, and<br>   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days after `i` are non-decreasing.<br><br>More formally, this means day `i` is a good day to rob the bank if and only if `security[i - time] = security[i - time + 1] = ... = security[i] <= ... <= security[i + time - 1] <= security[i + time]`.<br><br>Return _a list of all days (0-indexed) that are good days to rob the bank_. _The order that the days are returned in does not matter._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: security = \[5,3,3,3,5,6,2\], time = 2<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>On day 2, we have security\[0\] = security\[1\] = security\[2\] <= security\[3\] <= security\[4\].<br>On day 3, we have security\[1\] = security\[2\] = security\[3\] <= security\[4\] <= security\[5\].<br>No other days satisfy this condition, so days 2 and 3 are the only good days to rob the bank.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: security = \[1,1,1,1,1\], time = 0<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,4\]<br>Explanation:<br>Since time equals 0, every day is a good day to rob the bank, so return every day.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: security = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\], time = 2<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation:<br>No day has 2 days before it that have a non-increasing number of guards.<br>Thus, no day is a good day to rob the bank, so return an empty list.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= security.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= security[i], time <= 105`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    prod = 1<br>    a = (1 << p) - 2<br>    b = ((1 << p) - 1) % MOD<br>       <br>    while a  0:<br>        if a % 2:<br>            prod = (prod  b) % MOD<br>        b = (b  b) % MOD<br>        a //= 2<br>    return prod

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2244.txt
> def numOfBeams(bank):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `tasks`, where `tasks[i]` represents the difficulty level of a task. In each round, you can complete either 2 or 3 tasks of the same difficulty level.<br><br>Return _the minimum rounds required to complete all the tasks, or_ `-1` _if it is not possible to complete all the tasks._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[2,2,3,3,2,4,4,4,4,4\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: To complete all the tasks, a possible plan is:<br>- In the first round, you complete 3 tasks of difficulty level 2. <br>- In the second round, you complete 2 tasks of difficulty level 3. <br>- In the third round, you complete 3 tasks of difficulty level 4. <br>- In the fourth round, you complete 2 tasks of difficulty level 4.  <br>It can be shown that all the tasks cannot be completed in fewer than 4 rounds, so the answer is 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[2,3,3\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is only 1 task of difficulty level 2, but in each round, you can only complete either 2 or 3 tasks of the same difficulty level. Hence, you cannot complete all the tasks, and the answer is -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= tasks.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= tasks[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    m = len(bank)<br>    n = len(bank[0])<br>    beams = 0<br><br>    for i in range(m):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if bank[i][j] == '1':<br>                k = j + 1<br>                while k < n and bank[i][k] != '1':<br>                    beams += bank[i][k] == '0'<br>                    k += 1<br>                k = i + 1<br>                while k < m and bank[k][j] != '1':<br>                    beams += bank[k][j] == '0'<br>                    k += 1<br><br>    return beams

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2194.txt
> def cell_range(s):<br>    """A cell `(r, c)` of an excel sheet is represented as a string `" "` where:<br><br>   denotes the column number `c` of the cell. It is represented by alphabetical letters.<br>       For example, the `1st` column is denoted by `'A'`, the `2nd` by `'B'`, the `3rd` by `'C'`, and so on.<br>   is the row number `r` of the cell. The `rth` row is represented by the integer `r`.<br><br>You are given a string `s` in the format `": "`, where represents the column `c1`, represents the row `r1`, represents the column `c2`, and represents the row `r2`, such that `r1 <= r2` and `c1 <= c2`.<br><br>Return _the list of cells_ `(x, y)` _such that_ `r1 <= x <= r2` _and_ `c1 <= y <= c2`. The cells should be represented as strings in the format mentioned above and be sorted in non-decreasing order first by columns and then by rows.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "K1:L2 "<br>Output: \[ "K1 ", "K2 ", "L1 ", "L2 "\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram shows the cells which should be present in the list.<br>The red arrows denote the order in which the cells should be presented.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "A1:F1 "<br>Output: \[ "A1 ", "B1 ", "C1 ", "D1 ", "E1 ", "F1 "\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram shows the cells which should be present in the list.<br>The red arrow denotes the order in which the cells should be presented.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `s.length == 5`<br>   `'A' <= s[0] <= s[3] <= 'Z'`<br>   `'1' <= s[1] <= s[4] <= '9'`<br>   `s` consists of uppercase English letters, digits and `':'`."""<br><br>    r1 = int(s[1])<br>    r2 = int(s[4])<br>    c1 = ord(s[0]) - ord('A') + 1<br>    c2 = ord(s[3]) - ord('A') + 1<br><br>    res = []<br>    for c in range(c1, c2 + 1):<br>        for r in range(r1, r2 + 1):<br>            res.append(chr(ord('A') + c - 1) + str(r))<br>    return res

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2120.txt
> def findNoOfInstructions(n: int, startPos: List[int], s: str) - List[int]:<br>    """There is an `n x n` grid, with the top-left cell at `(0, 0)` and the bottom-right cell at `(n - 1, n - 1)`. You are given the integer `n` and an integer array `startPos` where `startPos = [startrow, startcol]` indicates that a robot is initially at cell `(startrow, startcol)`.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed string `s` of length `m` where `s[i]` is the `ith` instruction for the robot: `'L'` (move left), `'R'` (move right), `'U'` (move up), and `'D'` (move down).<br><br>The robot can begin executing from any `ith` instruction in `s`. It executes the instructions one by one towards the end of `s` but it stops if either of these conditions is met:<br><br>   The next instruction will move the robot off the grid.<br>   There are no more instructions left to execute.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `m` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of instructions the robot can execute if the robot begins executing from the_ `ith` _instruction in_ `s`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, startPos = \[0,1\], s =  "RRDDLU "<br>Output: \[1,5,4,3,1,0\]<br>Explanation: Starting from startPos and beginning execution from the ith instruction:<br>- 0th:  "RRDDLU ". Only one instruction  "R " can be executed before it moves off the grid.<br>- 1st:   "RDDLU ". All five instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (1, 1).<br>- 2nd:    "DDLU ". All four instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (1, 0).<br>- 3rd:     "DLU ". All three instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (0, 0).<br>- 4th:      "LU ". Only one instruction  "L " can be executed before it moves off the grid.<br>- 5th:       "U ". If moving up, it would move off the grid.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, startPos = \[1,1\], s =  "LURD "<br>Output: \[4,1,0,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>- 0th:  "LURD ".<br>- 1st:   "URD ".<br>- 2nd:    "RD ".<br>- 3rd:     "D ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1, startPos = \[0,0\], s =  "LRUD "<br>Output: \[0,0,0,0\]<br>Explanation: No matter which instruction the robot begins execution from, it would move off the grid.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == s.length`<br>   `1 <= n, m <= 500`<br>   `startPos.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startrow, startcol < n`<br>   `s` consists of `'L'`, `'R'`, `'U'`, and `'D'`."""<br><br>    answer = [0]  len(s)<br>    x, y = startPos<br><br>    for i in range(len(s)):<br>        cnt = 0<br>        cx, cy = x, y<br>        for j in range(i, len(s)):<br>            step = s[j]<br>            if step == 'L':<br>                if cy == 0: break<br>                cy -= 1<br>            elif step == 'R':<br>                if cy == n - 1: break<br>                cy += 1<br>            elif step == 'U':<br>                if cx == 0: break<br>                cx -= 1<br>            else:<br>                if cx == n - 1: break<br>                cx += 1<br>            cnt += 1<br>            if j == len(s) - 1: break<br>        answer[i] = cnt<br><br>    return answer

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2585.txt
> def numberOfWays(target, types):<br>    """There is a test that has `n` types of questions. You are given an integer `target` and a 0-indexed 2D integer array `types` where `types[i] = [counti, marksi]` indicates that there are `counti` questions of the `ith` type, and each one of them is worth `marksi` points.<br><br>Return _the number of ways you can earn exactly_ `target` _points in the exam_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that questions of the same type are indistinguishable.<br><br>   For example, if there are `3` questions of the same type, then solving the `1st` and `2nd` questions is the same as solving the `1st` and `3rd` questions, or the `2nd` and `3rd` questions.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 6, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: You can earn 6 points in one of the seven ways:<br>- Solve 6 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 6<br>- Solve 4 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 1 question of the 0th type, 1 question of the 1st type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 2 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 1st type: 2 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 2nd type: 3 + 3 = 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 5, types = \[\[50,1\],\[50,2\],\[50,5\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: You can earn 5 points in one of the four ways:<br>- Solve 5 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 2 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 question of the 2nd type: 5<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 18, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You can only earn 18 points by answering all questions.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`<br>   `n == types.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 50`<br>   `types[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= counti, marksi <= 50`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    dp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    for count, marks in types:<br>        dptmp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>        for i in range(target + 1):<br>            for j in range(count + 1):<br>                if j  marks + i <= target:<br>                    dptmp[i + j  marks] = (dptmp[i + j  marks] + dp[i]) % MOD<br>        dp = dptmp<br>    return dp[target]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_73.txt
> def setZeroes(matrix):<br>    """Given an `m x n` integer matrix `matrix`, if an element is `0`, set its entire row and column to `0`'s.<br><br>You must do it [in place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,0,1\],\[1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,0,1\],\[0,0,0\],\[1,0,1\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[0,1,2,0\],\[3,4,5,2\],\[1,3,1,5\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,4,5,0\],\[0,3,1,0\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == matrix.length`<br>   `n == matrix[0].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `-231 <= matrix[i][j] <= 231 - 1`<br><br>Follow up:<br><br>   A straightforward solution using `O(mn)` space is probably a bad idea.<br>   A simple improvement uses `O(m + n)` space, but still not the best solution.<br>   Could you devise a constant space solution?"""<br><br>    rows = len(matrix)<br>    cols = len(matrix[0])<br>    firstRow, firstCol = False, False<br><br>    for i in range(rows):<br>        for j in range(cols):<br>            if matrix[i][j] == 0:<br>                if i == 0: firstRow = True<br>                if j == 0: firstCol = True<br>                matrix[i][0] = 0<br>                matrix[0][j] = 0<br><br>    for i in range(1, rows):<br>        for j in range(1, cols):<br>            if matrix[i][0] == 0 or matrix[0][j] == 0:<br>                matrix[i][j] = 0<br><br>    if firstRow:<br>        for j in range(cols):<br>            matrix[0][j] = 0<br><br>    if firstCol:<br>        for i in range(rows):<br>            matrix[i][0] = 0
