# Query `107`

## Original Question

*You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n` that represents a map of the items in a shop. The integers in the grid represent the following:

   `0` represents a wall that you cannot pass through.
   `1` represents an empty cell that you can freely move to and from.
   All other positive integers represent the price of an item in that cell. You may also freely move to and from these item cells.

It takes `1` step to travel between adjacent grid cells.

You are also given integer arrays `pricing` and `start` where `pricing = [low, high]` and `start = [row, col]` indicates that you start at the position `(row, col)` and are interested only in items with a price in the range of `[low, high]` (inclusive). You are further given an integer `k`.

You are interested in the positions of the `k` highest-ranked items whose prices are within the given price range. The rank is determined by the first of these criteria that is different:

1.  Distance, defined as the length of the shortest path from the `start` (shorter distance has a higher rank).
2.  Price (lower price has a higher rank, but it must be in the price range).
3.  The row number (smaller row number has a higher rank).
4.  The column number (smaller column number has a higher rank).

Return _the_ `k` _highest-ranked items within the price range sorted by their rank (highest to lowest)_. If there are fewer than `k` reachable items within the price range, return _all of them_.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[1,2,0,1\],\[1,3,0,1\],\[0,2,5,1\]\], pricing = \[2,5\], start = \[0,0\], k = 3
Output: \[\[0,1\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\]\]
Explanation: You start at (0,0).
With a price range of \[2,5\], we can take items from (0,1), (1,1), (2,1) and (2,2).
The ranks of these items are:
- (0,1) with distance 1
- (1,1) with distance 2
- (2,1) with distance 3
- (2,2) with distance 4
Thus, the 3 highest ranked items in the price range are (0,1), (1,1), and (2,1).

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[1,2,0,1\],\[1,3,3,1\],\[0,2,5,1\]\], pricing = \[2,3\], start = \[2,3\], k = 2
Output: \[\[2,1\],\[1,2\]\]
Explanation: You start at (2,3).
With a price range of \[2,3\], we can take items from (0,1), (1,1), (1,2) and (2,1).
The ranks of these items are:
- (2,1) with distance 2, price 2
- (1,2) with distance 2, price 3
- (1,1) with distance 3
- (0,1) with distance 4
Thus, the 2 highest ranked items in the price range are (2,1) and (1,2).

Example 3:

Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[0,0,1\],\[2,3,4\]\], pricing = \[2,3\], start = \[0,0\], k = 3
Output: \[\[2,1\],\[2,0\]\]
Explanation: You start at (0,0).
With a price range of \[2,3\], we can take items from (2,0) and (2,1). 
The ranks of these items are: 
- (2,1) with distance 5
- (2,0) with distance 6
Thus, the 2 highest ranked items in the price range are (2,1) and (2,0). 
Note that k = 3 but there are only 2 reachable items within the price range.

Constraints:

   `m == grid.length`
   `n == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 105`
   `1 <= m  n <= 105`
   `0 <= grid[i][j] <= 105`
   `pricing.length == 2`
   `2 <= low <= high <= 105`
   `start.length == 2`
   `0 <= row <= m - 1`
   `0 <= col <= n - 1`
   `grid[row][col] > 0`
   `1 <= k <= m  n`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0233
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0860
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0860
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0078
map_cut_100: 0.0078
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_980.txt
> from itertools import permutations<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer array `grid` where `grid[i][j]` could be:<br><br>   `1` representing the starting square. There is exactly one starting square.<br>   `2` representing the ending square. There is exactly one ending square.<br>   `0` representing empty squares we can walk over.<br>   `-1` representing obstacles that we cannot walk over.<br><br>Return _the number of 4-directional walks from the starting square to the ending square, that walk over every non-obstacle square exactly once_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,2,-1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: We have the following two paths: <br>1. (0,0),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2)<br>2. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(2,2)<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: We have the following four paths: <br>1. (0,0),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(2,3)<br>2. (0,0),(0,1),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(1,2),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(2,3)<br>3. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(1,2),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(2,3)<br>4. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(2,2),(2,3)<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no path that walks over every empty square exactly once.<br>Note that the starting and ending square can be anywhere in the grid.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 20`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 20`<br>   `-1 <= grid[i][j] <= 2`<br>   There is exactly one starting cell and one ending cell."""<br><br><br>def smallestSuperstring(words):<br>    def get_shared_length(a, b):<br>        for shared_length in range(min(len(a), len(b)), 0, -1):<br>            if a[-shared_length:] == b[:shared_length]:<br>                return shared_length<br>        return 0<br><br>    def merge(a, b, shared_length):<br>        return a + b[shared_length:]<br><br>    def get_total_length(merged_words):<br>        return sum(len(word) for word in merged_words)<br><br>    best = None<br>    for perm in permutations(words):<br>        merged_words = list(perm)<br>        for i in range(len(words) - 1):<br>            shared_length = get_shared_length(merged_words[i], merged_words[i + 1])<br>            merged_words[i + 1] = merge(merged_words[i], merged_words[i + 1], shared_length)<br>        if best is None or get_total_length(merged_words) < len(best):<br>            best = "".join(merged_words)<br><br>    return best

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_885.txt
> from bisect import bisect_left, insort_left<br>    """You start at the cell `(rStart, cStart)` of an `rows x cols` grid facing east. The northwest corner is at the first row and column in the grid, and the southeast corner is at the last row and column.<br><br>You will walk in a clockwise spiral shape to visit every position in this grid. Whenever you move outside the grid's boundary, we continue our walk outside the grid (but may return to the grid boundary later.). Eventually, we reach all `rows  cols` spaces of the grid.<br><br>Return _an array of coordinates representing the positions of the grid in the order you visited them_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: rows = 1, cols = 4, rStart = 0, cStart = 0<br>Output: \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,3\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: rows = 5, cols = 6, rStart = 1, cStart = 4<br>Output: \[\[1,4\],\[1,5\],\[2,5\],\[2,4\],\[2,3\],\[1,3\],\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[0,5\],\[3,5\],\[3,4\],\[3,3\],\[3,2\],\[2,2\],\[1,2\],\[0,2\],\[4,5\],\[4,4\],\[4,3\],\[4,2\],\[4,1\],\[3,1\],\[2,1\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[4,0\],\[3,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[0,0\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= rows, cols <= 100`<br>   `0 <= rStart < rows`<br>   `0 <= cStart < cols`"""<br><br><br>class ExamRoom:<br><br>    def __init__(self, n: int):<br>        self.students = []<br>        self.n = n<br><br>    def seat(self) - int:<br>        if not self.students:<br>            seat_index = 0<br>        else:<br>            distance, seat_index = self.students[0], 0<br>            <br>            for i in range(1, len(self.students)):<br>                d = (self.students[i] - self.students[i - 1]) // 2<br>                if d  distance:<br>                    distance = d<br>                    seat_index = self.students[i - 1] + d<br>                    <br>            if self.n - 1 - self.students[-1]  distance:<br>                seat_index = self.n - 1<br>                <br>        insort_left(self.students, seat_index)<br>        return seat_index<br><br>    def leave(self, p: int) - None:<br>        index = bisect_left(self.students, p)<br>        self.students.pop(index)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2257.txt
> def earliest_blooming_day(plant_time, grow_time):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` representing a 0-indexed `m x n` grid. You are also given two 2D integer arrays `guards` and `walls` where `guards[i] = [rowi, coli]` and `walls[j] = [rowj, colj]` represent the positions of the `ith` guard and `jth` wall respectively.<br><br>A guard can see every cell in the four cardinal directions (north, east, south, or west) starting from their position unless obstructed by a wall or another guard. A cell is guarded if there is at least one guard that can see it.<br><br>Return _the number of unoccupied cells that are not guarded._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, guards = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,3\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[2,2\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: The guarded and unguarded cells are shown in red and green respectively in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 7 unguarded cells, so we return 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 3, guards = \[\[1,1\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[2,1\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The unguarded cells are shown in green in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 4 unguarded cells, so we return 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= guards.length, walls.length <= 5  104`<br>   `2 <= guards.length + walls.length <= m  n`<br>   `guards[i].length == walls[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, rowj < m`<br>   `0 <= coli, colj < n`<br>   All the positions in `guards` and `walls` are unique."""<br><br>    bloom_time = [plant_time[i] + grow_time[i] for i in range(len(plant_time))]<br>    bloom_time.sort()<br>    earliest_day = 0<br>    for i in bloom_time:<br>        earliest_day = max(earliest_day, i)<br>        earliest_day += 1<br>    return earliest_day

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_947.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """On a 2D plane, we place `n` stones at some integer coordinate points. Each coordinate point may have at most one stone.<br><br>A stone can be removed if it shares either the same row or the same column as another stone that has not been removed.<br><br>Given an array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i] = [xi, yi]` represents the location of the `ith` stone, return _the largest possible number of stones that can be removed_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: One way to remove 5 stones is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,1\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,1\] because it shares the same column as \[0,1\].<br>3. Remove stone \[1,2\] because it shares the same row as \[1,0\].<br>4. Remove stone \[1,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>5. Remove stone \[0,1\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stone \[0,0\] cannot be removed since it does not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,2\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One way to make 3 moves is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,0\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>3. Remove stone \[0,2\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stones \[0,0\] and \[1,1\] cannot be removed since they do not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: \[0,0\] is the only stone on the plane, so you cannot remove it.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   No two stones are at the same coordinate point."""<br><br>from bisect import bisect<br><br>class TopVotedCandidate:<br><br>    def __init__(self, persons, times):<br>        self.leader_map = {}<br>        self.times = times<br>        votes = defaultdict(int)<br>        leader = -1<br>        for i, t in enumerate(times):<br>            votes[persons[i]] += 1<br>            if votes[persons[i]] = votes[leader]:<br>                leader = persons[i]<br>            self.leader_map[t] = leader<br><br>    def q(self, t):<br>        idx = bisect.bisect(self.times, t)<br>        return self.times[idx - 1]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1275.txt
> def validateBinaryTreeNodes(n, leftChild, rightChild):<br>    """Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.<br><br>You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "A "<br>Explanation: A wins, they always play first.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output:  "B "<br>Explanation: B wins.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "Draw "<br>Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`<br>   `moves[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`<br>   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.<br>   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe."""<br><br>    parent = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if leftChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[leftChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[leftChild[i]] = i<br>        if rightChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[rightChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[rightChild[i]] = i<br>    <br>    root = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if parent[i] == -1:<br>            if root != -1:<br>                return False<br>            root = i<br><br>    return root != -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_215.txt
> def findKthLargest(nums: List[int], k: int) - int:<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the_ `kth` _largest element in the array_.<br><br>Note that it is the `kth` largest element in the sorted order, not the `kth` distinct element.<br><br>You must solve it in `O(n)` time complexity.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,1,5,6,4\], k = 2<br>Output: 5<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,3,1,2,4,5,5,6\], k = 4<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    nums.sort(reverse=True)<br>    return nums[k-1]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1162.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """Given an `n x n` `grid` containing only values `0` and `1`, where `0` represents water and `1` represents land, find a water cell such that its distance to the nearest land cell is maximized, and return the distance. If no land or water exists in the grid, return `-1`.<br><br>The distance used in this problem is the Manhattan distance: the distance between two cells `(x0, y0)` and `(x1, y1)` is `|x0 - x1| + |y0 - y1|`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,1\],\[0,0,0\],\[1,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The cell (1, 1) is as far as possible from all the land with distance 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0\],\[0,0,0\],\[0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The cell (2, 2) is as far as possible from all the land with distance 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is `0` or `1`"""<br><br><br>def maxDistance(grid):<br>    distance = -1<br>    water_cells = deque()<br>    n = len(grid)<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if grid[i][j] == 1:<br>                water_cells.append((i, j))<br><br>    if not water_cells or len(water_cells) == n  n:<br>        return distance<br><br>    directions = ((0, 1), (0, -1), (1, 0), (-1, 0))<br><br>    while water_cells:<br>        size = len(water_cells)<br>        for _ in range(size):<br>            x, y = water_cells.popleft()<br>            for dx, dy in directions:<br>                newX, newY = x + dx, y + dy<br>                if 0 <= newX < n and 0 <= newY < n and grid[newX][newY] == 0:<br>                    grid[newX][newY] = 1<br>                    water_cells.append((newX, newY))<br>        distance += 1<br>        <br>    return distance - 1

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 42, leetcode/leetcode_2512.txt
> def top_k_students(positive_feedback, negative_feedback, report, student_id, k):<br>    """You are given two string arrays `positive_feedback` and `negative_feedback`, containing the words denoting positive and negative feedback, respectively. Note that no word is both positive and negative.<br><br>Initially every student has `0` points. Each positive word in a feedback report increases the points of a student by `3`, whereas each negative word decreases the points by `1`.<br><br>You are given `n` feedback reports, represented by a 0-indexed string array `report` and a 0-indexed integer array `student_id`, where `student_id[i]` represents the ID of the student who has received the feedback report `report[i]`. The ID of each student is unique.<br><br>Given an integer `k`, return _the top_ `k` _students after ranking them in non-increasing order by their points_. In case more than one student has the same points, the one with the lower ID ranks higher.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: positive\_feedback = \[ "smart ", "brilliant ", "studious "\], negative\_feedback = \[ "not "\], report = \[ "this student is studious ", "the student is smart "\], student\_id = \[1,2\], k = 2<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: <br>Both the students have 1 positive feedback and 3 points but since student 1 has a lower ID he ranks higher.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: positive\_feedback = \[ "smart ", "brilliant ", "studious "\], negative\_feedback = \[ "not "\], report = \[ "this student is not studious ", "the student is smart "\], student\_id = \[1,2\], k = 2<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br>Explanation: <br>- The student with ID 1 has 1 positive feedback and 1 negative feedback, so he has 3-1=2 points. <br>- The student with ID 2 has 1 positive feedback, so he has 3 points. <br>Since student 2 has more points, \[2,1\] is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= positive_feedback.length, negative_feedback.length <= 104`<br>   `1 <= positive_feedback[i].length, negative_feedback[j].length <= 100`<br>   Both `positive_feedback[i]` and `negative_feedback[j]` consists of lowercase English letters.<br>   No word is present in both `positive_feedback` and `negative_feedback`.<br>   `n == report.length == student_id.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `report[i]` consists of lowercase English letters and spaces `' '`.<br>   There is a single space between consecutive words of `report[i]`.<br>   `1 <= report[i].length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= student_id[i] <= 109`<br>   All the values of `student_id[i]` are unique.<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    points = {}<br>    for i in range(len(report)):<br>        pos_count, neg_count = 0, 0<br>        for pos in positive_feedback:<br>            pos_index = report[i].find(pos)<br>            while pos_index != -1:<br>                pos_count += 1<br>                pos_index = report[i].find(pos, pos_index + len(pos))<br>        for neg in negative_feedback:<br>            neg_index = report[i].find(neg)<br>            while neg_index != -1:<br>                neg_count += 1<br>                neg_index = report[i].find(neg, neg_index + len(neg))<br>        <br>        points[student_id[i]] = points.get(student_id[i], 0) + 3  pos_count - neg_count<br><br>    students = sorted(student_id, key=lambda x: (-points[x], x))<br>    return students[:k]
