# Query `109`

## Original Question

*A generic microwave supports cooking times for:

   at least `1` second.
   at most `99` minutes and `99` seconds.

To set the cooking time, you push at most four digits. The microwave normalizes what you push as four digits by prepending zeroes. It interprets the first two digits as the minutes and the last two digits as the seconds. It then adds them up as the cooking time. For example,

   You push `9` `5` `4` (three digits). It is normalized as `0954` and interpreted as `9` minutes and `54` seconds.
   You push `0` `0` `0` `8` (four digits). It is interpreted as `0` minutes and `8` seconds.
   You push `8` `0` `9` `0`. It is interpreted as `80` minutes and `90` seconds.
   You push `8` `1` `3` `0`. It is interpreted as `81` minutes and `30` seconds.

You are given integers `startAt`, `moveCost`, `pushCost`, and `targetSeconds`. Initially, your finger is on the digit `startAt`. Moving the finger above any specific digit costs `moveCost` units of fatigue. Pushing the digit below the finger once costs `pushCost` units of fatigue.

There can be multiple ways to set the microwave to cook for `targetSeconds` seconds but you are interested in the way with the minimum cost.

Return _the minimum cost to set_ `targetSeconds` _seconds of cooking time_.

Remember that one minute consists of `60` seconds.

Example 1:

Input: startAt = 1, moveCost = 2, pushCost = 1, targetSeconds = 600
Output: 6
Explanation: The following are the possible ways to set the cooking time.
- 1 0 0 0, interpreted as 10 minutes and 0 seconds.
  The finger is already on digit 1, pushes 1 (with cost 1), moves to 0 (with cost 2), pushes 0 (with cost 1), pushes 0 (with cost 1), and pushes 0 (with cost 1).
  The cost is: 1 + 2 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 6. This is the minimum cost.
- 0 9 6 0, interpreted as 9 minutes and 60 seconds. That is also 600 seconds.
  The finger moves to 0 (with cost 2), pushes 0 (with cost 1), moves to 9 (with cost 2), pushes 9 (with cost 1), moves to 6 (with cost 2), pushes 6 (with cost 1), moves to 0 (with cost 2), and pushes 0 (with cost 1).
  The cost is: 2 + 1 + 2 + 1 + 2 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 12.
- 9 6 0, normalized as 0960 and interpreted as 9 minutes and 60 seconds.
  The finger moves to 9 (with cost 2), pushes 9 (with cost 1), moves to 6 (with cost 2), pushes 6 (with cost 1), moves to 0 (with cost 2), and pushes 0 (with cost 1).
  The cost is: 2 + 1 + 2 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 9.

Example 2:

Input: startAt = 0, moveCost = 1, pushCost = 2, targetSeconds = 76
Output: 6
Explanation: The optimal way is to push two digits: 7 6, interpreted as 76 seconds.
The finger moves to 7 (with cost 1), pushes 7 (with cost 2), moves to 6 (with cost 1), and pushes 6 (with cost 2). The total cost is: 1 + 2 + 1 + 2 = 6
Note other possible ways are 0076, 076, 0116, and 116, but none of them produces the minimum cost.

Constraints:

   `0 <= startAt <= 9`
   `1 <= moveCost, pushCost <= 105`
   `1 <= targetSeconds <= 6039`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0012
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2304.txt
> def excel_sheet_cells(s: str):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed `m x n` integer matrix `grid` consisting of distinct integers from `0` to `m  n - 1`. You can move in this matrix from a cell to any other cell in the next row. That is, if you are in cell `(x, y)` such that `x < m - 1`, you can move to any of the cells `(x + 1, 0)`, `(x + 1, 1)`, ..., `(x + 1, n - 1)`. Note that it is not possible to move from cells in the last row.<br><br>Each possible move has a cost given by a 0-indexed 2D array `moveCost` of size `(m  n) x n`, where `moveCost[i][j]` is the cost of moving from a cell with value `i` to a cell in column `j` of the next row. The cost of moving from cells in the last row of `grid` can be ignored.<br><br>The cost of a path in `grid` is the sum of all values of cells visited plus the sum of costs of all the moves made. Return _the minimum cost of a path that starts from any cell in the first row and ends at any cell in the last row._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[5,3\],\[4,0\],\[2,1\]\], moveCost = \[\[9,8\],\[1,5\],\[10,12\],\[18,6\],\[2,4\],\[14,3\]\]<br>Output: 17<br>Explanation: The path with the minimum possible cost is the path 5 - 0 - 1.<br>- The sum of the values of cells visited is 5 + 0 + 1 = 6.<br>- The cost of moving from 5 to 0 is 3.<br>- The cost of moving from 0 to 1 is 8.<br>So the total cost of the path is 6 + 3 + 8 = 17.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[5,1,2\],\[4,0,3\]\], moveCost = \[\[12,10,15\],\[20,23,8\],\[21,7,1\],\[8,1,13\],\[9,10,25\],\[5,3,2\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The path with the minimum possible cost is the path 2 - 3.<br>- The sum of the values of cells visited is 2 + 3 = 5.<br>- The cost of moving from 2 to 3 is 1.<br>So the total cost of this path is 5 + 1 = 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `2 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `grid` consists of distinct integers from `0` to `m  n - 1`.<br>   `moveCost.length == m  n`<br>   `moveCost[i].length == n`<br>   `1 <= moveCost[i][j] <= 100`"""<br><br>    c1, r1, c2, r2 = s.split(':')<br>    r1, r2 = int(r1[1:]), int(r2[1:])<br>    c1, c2 = ord(c1[0]), ord(c2[0])<br>    result = []<br><br>    for c in range(c1, c2 + 1):<br>        for r in range(r1, r2 + 1):<br>            result.append(chr(c) + str(r))<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1320.txt
> def removeDuplicates(s: str, k: int) - str:<br>    """You have a keyboard layout as shown above in the X-Y plane, where each English uppercase letter is located at some coordinate.<br><br>   For example, the letter `'A'` is located at coordinate `(0, 0)`, the letter `'B'` is located at coordinate `(0, 1)`, the letter `'P'` is located at coordinate `(2, 3)` and the letter `'Z'` is located at coordinate `(4, 1)`.<br><br>Given the string `word`, return _the minimum total distance to type such string using only two fingers_.<br><br>The distance between coordinates `(x1, y1)` and `(x2, y2)` is `|x1 - x2| + |y1 - y2|`.<br><br>Note that the initial positions of your two fingers are considered free so do not count towards your total distance, also your two fingers do not have to start at the first letter or the first two letters.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: word =  "CAKE "<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Using two fingers, one optimal way to type  "CAKE " is: <br>Finger 1 on letter 'C' - cost = 0 <br>Finger 1 on letter 'A' - cost = Distance from letter 'C' to letter 'A' = 2 <br>Finger 2 on letter 'K' - cost = 0 <br>Finger 2 on letter 'E' - cost = Distance from letter 'K' to letter 'E' = 1 <br>Total distance = 3<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: word =  "HAPPY "<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: Using two fingers, one optimal way to type  "HAPPY " is:<br>Finger 1 on letter 'H' - cost = 0<br>Finger 1 on letter 'A' - cost = Distance from letter 'H' to letter 'A' = 2<br>Finger 2 on letter 'P' - cost = 0<br>Finger 2 on letter 'P' - cost = Distance from letter 'P' to letter 'P' = 0<br>Finger 1 on letter 'Y' - cost = Distance from letter 'A' to letter 'Y' = 4<br>Total distance = 6<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= word.length <= 300`<br>   `word` consists of uppercase English letters."""<br><br>    stack = []<br>    for c in s:<br>        if stack and stack[-1][0] == c:<br>            stack[-1][1] += 1<br>            if stack[-1][1] == k:<br>                stack.pop()<br>        else:<br>            stack.append([c, 1])<br>    return ''.join(c  n for c, n in stack)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1449.txt
> def largestNumber(cost, target):<br>    """Given an array of integers `cost` and an integer `target`, return _the maximum integer you can paint under the following rules_:<br><br>   The cost of painting a digit `(i + 1)` is given by `cost[i]` (0-indexed).<br>   The total cost used must be equal to `target`.<br>   The integer does not have `0` digits.<br><br>Since the answer may be very large, return it as a string. If there is no way to paint any integer given the condition, return `"0 "`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: cost = \[4,3,2,5,6,7,2,5,5\], target = 9<br>Output:  "7772 "<br>Explanation: The cost to paint the digit '7' is 2, and the digit '2' is 3. Then cost( "7772 ") = 2\3+ 3\1 = 9. You could also paint  "977 ", but  "7772 " is the largest number.<br>Digit    cost<br>  1  -   4<br>  2  -   3<br>  3  -   2<br>  4  -   5<br>  5  -   6<br>  6  -   7<br>  7  -   2<br>  8  -   5<br>  9  -   5<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: cost = \[7,6,5,5,5,6,8,7,8\], target = 12<br>Output:  "85 "<br>Explanation: The cost to paint the digit '8' is 7, and the digit '5' is 5. Then cost( "85 ") = 7 + 5 = 12.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: cost = \[2,4,6,2,4,6,4,4,4\], target = 5<br>Output:  "0 "<br>Explanation: It is impossible to paint any integer with total cost equal to target.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `cost.length == 9`<br>   `1 <= cost[i], target <= 5000`"""<br><br>    dp = ["" for _ in range(target + 1)]<br>    dp[0] = ""<br><br>    for i in range(9):<br>        for j in range(cost[i], target + 1):<br>            if dp[j - cost[i]] != None and len(dp[j - cost[i]]) < j - cost[i] \<br>               and (dp[j] == None or len(dp[j - cost[i]]) + 1  len(dp[j])):<br>                dp[j] = dp[j - cost[i]] + str(i + 1)<br><br>    return dp[target] if dp[target] else "0"

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_983.txt
> def validateStackSequences(pushed, popped):<br>    """You have planned some train traveling one year in advance. The days of the year in which you will travel are given as an integer array `days`. Each day is an integer from `1` to `365`.<br><br>Train tickets are sold in three different ways:<br><br>   a 1-day pass is sold for `costs[0]` dollars,<br>   a 7-day pass is sold for `costs[1]` dollars, and<br>   a 30-day pass is sold for `costs[2]` dollars.<br><br>The passes allow that many days of consecutive travel.<br><br>   For example, if we get a 7-day pass on day `2`, then we can travel for `7` days: `2`, `3`, `4`, `5`, `6`, `7`, and `8`.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of dollars you need to travel every day in the given list of days_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: days = \[1,4,6,7,8,20\], costs = \[2,7,15\]<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation: For example, here is one way to buy passes that lets you travel your travel plan:<br>On day 1, you bought a 1-day pass for costs\[0\] = $2, which covered day 1.<br>On day 3, you bought a 7-day pass for costs\[1\] = $7, which covered days 3, 4, ..., 9.<br>On day 20, you bought a 1-day pass for costs\[0\] = $2, which covered day 20.<br>In total, you spent $11 and covered all the days of your travel.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: days = \[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,30,31\], costs = \[2,7,15\]<br>Output: 17<br>Explanation: For example, here is one way to buy passes that lets you travel your travel plan:<br>On day 1, you bought a 30-day pass for costs\[2\] = $15 which covered days 1, 2, ..., 30.<br>On day 31, you bought a 1-day pass for costs\[0\] = $2 which covered day 31.<br>In total, you spent $17 and covered all the days of your travel.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= days.length <= 365`<br>   `1 <= days[i] <= 365`<br>   `days` is in strictly increasing order.<br>   `costs.length == 3`<br>   `1 <= costs[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    stack = []<br>    popIndex = 0<br>    <br>    for pushValue in pushed:<br>        stack.append(pushValue)<br>        while stack and stack[-1] == popped[popIndex]:<br>            stack.pop()<br>            popIndex += 1<br>    <br>    return not stack

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1595.txt
> def connectTwoGroups(cost):<br>    """You are given two groups of points where the first group has `size1` points, the second group has `size2` points, and `size1 = size2`.<br><br>The `cost` of the connection between any two points are given in an `size1 x size2` matrix where `cost[i][j]` is the cost of connecting point `i` of the first group and point `j` of the second group. The groups are connected if each point in both groups is connected to one or more points in the opposite group. In other words, each point in the first group must be connected to at least one point in the second group, and each point in the second group must be connected to at least one point in the first group.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost it takes to connect the two groups_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: cost = \[\[15, 96\], \[36, 2\]\]<br>Output: 17<br>Explanation: The optimal way of connecting the groups is:<br>1--A<br>2--B<br>This results in a total cost of 17.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: cost = \[\[1, 3, 5\], \[4, 1, 1\], \[1, 5, 3\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The optimal way of connecting the groups is:<br>1--A<br>2--B<br>2--C<br>3--A<br>This results in a total cost of 4.<br>Note that there are multiple points connected to point 2 in the first group and point A in the second group. This does not matter as there is no limit to the number of points that can be connected. We only care about the minimum total cost.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: cost = \[\[2, 5, 1\], \[3, 4, 7\], \[8, 1, 2\], \[6, 2, 4\], \[3, 8, 8\]\]<br>Output: 10<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `size1 == cost.length`<br>   `size2 == cost[i].length`<br>   `1 <= size1, size2 <= 12`<br>   `size1 = size2`<br>   `0 <= cost[i][j] <= 100`"""<br><br>    size1, size2 = len(cost), len(cost[0])<br>    min_cost = [float('inf')]  size2<br><br>    for i in range(size1):<br>        for j in range(size2):<br>            min_cost[j] = min(min_cost[j], cost[i][j])<br><br>    total_cost = 0<br>    for i in range(size1):<br>        total_cost += min(cost[i])<br><br>    for j in range(size2):<br>        total_cost += min_cost[j]<br><br>    return total_cost


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_539.txt
> def findMinDifference(timePoints):<br>    """Given a list of 24-hour clock time points in "HH:MM " format, return _the minimum minutes difference between any two time-points in the list_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: timePoints = \["23:59","00:00"\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: timePoints = \["00:00","23:59","00:00"\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= timePoints.length <= 2  104`<br>   `timePoints[i]` is in the format "HH:MM "."""<br><br>    timePoints.sort()<br>    min_difference = float('inf')<br><br>    for i in range(len(timePoints)):<br>        h1, m1 = map(int, timePoints[i].split(':'))<br>        h2, m2 = map(int, timePoints[(i+1)%len(timePoints)].split(':'))<br>        cur_difference = abs((h1  60 + m1) - (h2  60 + m2))<br>        min_difference = min(min_difference, 1440 - cur_difference if cur_difference  720 else cur_difference)<br><br>    return min_difference
