# Query `110`

## Original Question

*You are given an array of positive integers `beans`, where each integer represents the number of magic beans found in a particular magic bag.

Remove any number of beans (possibly none) from each bag such that the number of beans in each remaining non-empty bag (still containing at least one bean) is equal. Once a bean has been removed from a bag, you are not allowed to return it to any of the bags.

Return _the minimum number of magic beans that you have to remove_.

Example 1:

Input: beans = \[4,1,6,5\]
Output: 4
Explanation: 
- We remove 1 bean from the bag with only 1 bean.
  This results in the remaining bags: \[4,0,6,5\]
- Then we remove 2 beans from the bag with 6 beans.
  This results in the remaining bags: \[4,0,4,5\]
- Then we remove 1 bean from the bag with 5 beans.
  This results in the remaining bags: \[4,0,4,4\]
We removed a total of 1 + 2 + 1 = 4 beans to make the remaining non-empty bags have an equal number of beans.
There are no other solutions that remove 4 beans or fewer.

Example 2:

Input: beans = \[2,10,3,2\]
Output: 7
Explanation:
- We remove 2 beans from one of the bags with 2 beans.
  This results in the remaining bags: \[0,10,3,2\]
- Then we remove 2 beans from the other bag with 2 beans.
  This results in the remaining bags: \[0,10,3,0\]
- Then we remove 3 beans from the bag with 3 beans. 
  This results in the remaining bags: \[0,10,0,0\]
We removed a total of 2 + 2 + 3 = 7 beans to make the remaining non-empty bags have an equal number of beans.
There are no other solutions that removes 7 beans or fewer.

Constraints:

   `1 <= beans.length <= 105`
   `1 <= beans[i] <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0172
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1042
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0086
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2290.txt
> def min_number_of_beans_to_remove(beans):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n`. Each cell has one of two values:<br><br>   `0` represents an empty cell,<br>   `1` represents an obstacle that may be removed.<br><br>You can move up, down, left, or right from and to an empty cell.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of obstacles to remove so you can move from the upper left corner_ `(0, 0)` _to the lower right corner_ `(m - 1, n - 1)`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1,1\],\[1,1,0\],\[1,1,0\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: We can remove the obstacles at (0, 1) and (0, 2) to create a path from (0, 0) to (2, 2).<br>It can be shown that we need to remove at least 2 obstacles, so we return 2.<br>Note that there may be other ways to remove 2 obstacles to create a path.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1,0,0,0\],\[0,1,0,1,0\],\[0,0,0,1,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: We can move from (0, 0) to (2, 4) without removing any obstacles, so we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`.<br>   `grid[0][0] == grid[m - 1][n - 1] == 0`"""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    for bean in beans:<br>        if bean not in count:<br>            count[bean] = 0<br>        count[bean] += 1<br><br>    min_remove = len(beans)<br>    for key, value in count.items():<br>        remove = 0<br>        for other_key, other_value in count.items():<br>            if other_key != key:<br>                remove += other_value  max(0, other_key - key)<br>        min_remove = min(min_remove, remove)<br><br>    return min_remove

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1760.txt
> def can_form_array(arr, pieces):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums` where the `ith` bag contains `nums[i]` balls. You are also given an integer `maxOperations`.<br><br>You can perform the following operation at most `maxOperations` times:<br><br>   Take any bag of balls and divide it into two new bags with a positive number of balls.<br>       For example, a bag of `5` balls can become two new bags of `1` and `4` balls, or two new bags of `2` and `3` balls.<br><br>Your penalty is the maximum number of balls in a bag. You want to minimize your penalty after the operations.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible penalty after performing the operations_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[9\], maxOperations = 2<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: <br>- Divide the bag with 9 balls into two bags of sizes 6 and 3. \[9\] - \[6,3\].<br>- Divide the bag with 6 balls into two bags of sizes 3 and 3. \[6,3\] - \[3,3,3\].<br>The bag with the most number of balls has 3 balls, so your penalty is 3 and you should return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,4,8,2\], maxOperations = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- Divide the bag with 8 balls into two bags of sizes 4 and 4. \[2,4,8,2\] - \[2,4,4,4,2\].<br>- Divide the bag with 4 balls into two bags of sizes 2 and 2. \[2,4,4,4,2\] - \[2,2,2,4,4,2\].<br>- Divide the bag with 4 balls into two bags of sizes 2 and 2. \[2,2,2,4,4,2\] - \[2,2,2,2,2,4,2\].<br>- Divide the bag with 4 balls into two bags of sizes 2 and 2. \[2,2,2,2,2,4,2\] - \[2,2,2,2,2,2,2,2\].<br>The bag with the most number of balls has 2 balls, so your penalty is 2, and you should return 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= maxOperations, nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    piece_map = {piece[0]: piece for piece in pieces}<br>    <br>    i = 0<br>    while i < len(arr):<br>        if arr[i] not in piece_map:<br>            return False<br>        <br>        for num in piece_map[arr[i]]:<br>            if arr[i] != num:<br>                return False<br>            i += 1<br>            <br>    return True

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2305.txt
> def min_append_k_sum(nums, k):<br>    """You are given an integer array `cookies`, where `cookies[i]` denotes the number of cookies in the `ith` bag. You are also given an integer `k` that denotes the number of children to distribute all the bags of cookies to. All the cookies in the same bag must go to the same child and cannot be split up.<br><br>The unfairness of a distribution is defined as the maximum total cookies obtained by a single child in the distribution.<br><br>Return _the minimum unfairness of all distributions_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: cookies = \[8,15,10,20,8\], k = 2<br>Output: 31<br>Explanation: One optimal distribution is \[8,15,8\] and \[10,20\]<br>- The 1st child receives \[8,15,8\] which has a total of 8 + 15 + 8 = 31 cookies.<br>- The 2nd child receives \[10,20\] which has a total of 10 + 20 = 30 cookies.<br>The unfairness of the distribution is max(31,30) = 31.<br>It can be shown that there is no distribution with an unfairness less than 31.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: cookies = \[6,1,3,2,2,4,1,2\], k = 3<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: One optimal distribution is \[6,1\], \[3,2,2\], and \[4,1,2\]<br>- The 1st child receives \[6,1\] which has a total of 6 + 1 = 7 cookies.<br>- The 2nd child receives \[3,2,2\] which has a total of 3 + 2 + 2 = 7 cookies.<br>- The 3rd child receives \[4,1,2\] which has a total of 4 + 1 + 2 = 7 cookies.<br>The unfairness of the distribution is max(7,7,7) = 7.<br>It can be shown that there is no distribution with an unfairness less than 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= cookies.length <= 8`<br>   `1 <= cookies[i] <= 105`<br>   `2 <= k <= cookies.length`"""<br><br>    max_elem = max(nums)<br>    return sum(range(max_elem + 1, max_elem + k + 1))

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1574.txt
> def findLengthOfShortestSubarray(arr):<br>    """Given an integer array `arr`, remove a subarray (can be empty) from `arr` such that the remaining elements in `arr` are non-decreasing.<br><br>Return _the length of the shortest subarray to remove_.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous subsequence of the array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3,10,4,2,3,5\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The shortest subarray we can remove is \[10,4,2\] of length 3. The remaining elements after that will be \[1,2,3,3,5\] which are sorted.<br>Another correct solution is to remove the subarray \[3,10,4\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[5,4,3,2,1\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: Since the array is strictly decreasing, we can only keep a single element. Therefore we need to remove a subarray of length 4, either \[5,4,3,2\] or \[4,3,2,1\].<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The array is already non-decreasing. We do not need to remove any elements.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(arr)<br>    left, right = 0, n - 1<br>    while left < n - 1 and arr[left] <= arr[left + 1]:<br>        left += 1<br>    if left == n - 1:<br>        return 0<br>    while right  0 and arr[right] = arr[right - 1]:<br>        right -= 1<br>    result = min(n - left - 1, right)<br>    i, j = 0, right<br>    while i <= left and j < n:<br>        if arr[i] <= arr[j]:<br>            result = min(result, j - i - 1)<br>            i += 1<br>        else:<br>            j += 1<br>    return result

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2334.txt
> def find_subarray_length(nums, threshold):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums` and an integer `threshold`.<br><br>Find any subarray of `nums` of length `k` such that every element in the subarray is greater than `threshold / k`.<br><br>Return _the size of any such subarray_. If there is no such subarray, return `-1`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,4,3,1\], threshold = 6<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The subarray \[3,4,3\] has a size of 3, and every element is greater than 6 / 3 = 2.<br>Note that this is the only valid subarray.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[6,5,6,5,8\], threshold = 7<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: The subarray \[8\] has a size of 1, and 8  7 / 1 = 7. So 1 is returned.<br>Note that the subarray \[6,5\] has a size of 2, and every element is greater than 7 / 2 = 3.5. <br>Similarly, the subarrays \[6,5,6\], \[6,5,6,5\], \[6,5,6,5,8\] also satisfy the given conditions.<br>Therefore, 2, 3, 4, or 5 may also be returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i], threshold <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    left = 0<br>    right = 0<br>    total = 0<br>    max_length = -1<br><br>    while right < n:<br>        total += nums[right]<br>        while total  (right - left + 1) < threshold  (right - left + 1):<br>            total -= nums[left]<br>            left += 1<br>        max_length = max(max_length, right - left + 1)<br>        right += 1<br><br>    return max_length


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_462.txt
> def min_moves2(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` of size `n`, return _the minimum number of moves required to make all array elements equal_.<br><br>In one move, you can increment or decrement an element of the array by `1`.<br><br>Test cases are designed so that the answer will fit in a 32-bit integer.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>Only two moves are needed (remember each move increments or decrements one element):<br>\[1,2,3\]  =  \[2,2,3\]  =  \[2,2,2\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,10,2,9\]<br>Output: 16<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    nums.sort()<br>    mid = nums[len(nums) // 2]<br>    moves = 0<br>    for num in nums:<br>        moves += abs(num - mid)<br>    return moves

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 57, leetcode/leetcode_1658.txt
> def min_swaps(grid):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums` and an integer `x`. In one operation, you can either remove the leftmost or the rightmost element from the array `nums` and subtract its value from `x`. Note that this modifies the array for future operations.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations to reduce_ `x` _to exactly_ `0` _if it is possible__, otherwise, return_ `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,4,2,3\], x = 5<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The optimal solution is to remove the last two elements to reduce x to zero.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,6,7,8,9\], x = 4<br>Output: -1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,20,1,1,3\], x = 10<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The optimal solution is to remove the last three elements and the first two elements (5 operations in total) to reduce x to zero.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br>   `1 <= x <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(grid)<br>    row_zeros = [0]  n<br>    <br>    for i in range(n):<br>        for j in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>            if grid[i][j] == 0:<br>                row_zeros[i] += 1<br>            else:<br>                break<br>    <br>    steps = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        target = n - i - 1<br>        current_row = i<br>        while current_row < n and row_zeros[current_row] < target:<br>            current_row += 1<br>        if current_row == n:<br>            return -1<br>        steps += current_row - i<br>        row_zeros.pop(current_row)<br>        row_zeros.insert(i, target)<br>    <br>    return steps
