# Query `111`

## Original Question

*Alice and Bob are opponents in an archery competition. The competition has set the following rules:

1.  Alice first shoots `numArrows` arrows and then Bob shoots `numArrows` arrows.
2.  The points are then calculated as follows:
    1.  The target has integer scoring sections ranging from `0` to `11` inclusive.
    2.  For each section of the target with score `k` (in between `0` to `11`), say Alice and Bob have shot `ak` and `bk` arrows on that section respectively. If `ak >= bk`, then Alice takes `k` points. If `ak < bk`, then Bob takes `k` points.
    3.  However, if `ak == bk == 0`, then nobody takes `k` points.

   For example, if Alice and Bob both shot `2` arrows on the section with score `11`, then Alice takes `11` points. On the other hand, if Alice shot `0` arrows on the section with score `11` and Bob shot `2` arrows on that same section, then Bob takes `11` points.
    

You are given the integer `numArrows` and an integer array `aliceArrows` of size `12`, which represents the number of arrows Alice shot on each scoring section from `0` to `11`. Now, Bob wants to maximize the total number of points he can obtain.

Return _the array_ `bobArrows` _which represents the number of arrows Bob shot on each scoring section from_ `0` _to_ `11`. The sum of the values in `bobArrows` should equal `numArrows`.

If there are multiple ways for Bob to earn the maximum total points, return any one of them.

Example 1:

Input: numArrows = 9, aliceArrows = \[1,1,0,1,0,0,2,1,0,1,2,0\]
Output: \[0,0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,2,3,1\]
Explanation: The table above shows how the competition is scored. 
Bob earns a total point of 4 + 5 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 = 47.
It can be shown that Bob cannot obtain a score higher than 47 points.

Example 2:

Input: numArrows = 3, aliceArrows = \[0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,2\]
Output: \[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0\]
Explanation: The table above shows how the competition is scored.
Bob earns a total point of 8 + 9 + 10 = 27.
It can be shown that Bob cannot obtain a score higher than 27 points.

Constraints:

   `1 <= numArrows <= 105`
   `aliceArrows.length == bobArrows.length == 12`
   `0 <= aliceArrows[i], bobArrows[i] <= numArrows`
   `sum(aliceArrows[i]) == numArrows`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0014
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1690.txt
> def getMaxLen(nums):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, they can remove either the leftmost stone or the rightmost stone from the row and receive points equal to the sum of the remaining stones' values in the row. The winner is the one with the higher score when there are no stones left to remove.<br><br>Bob found that he will always lose this game (poor Bob, he always loses), so he decided to minimize the score's difference. Alice's goal is to maximize the difference in the score.<br><br>Given an array of integers `stones` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the difference in Alice and Bob's score if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,3,1,4,2\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>- Alice removes 2 and gets 5 + 3 + 1 + 4 = 13 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 0, stones = \[5,3,1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 5 and gets 3 + 1 + 4 = 8 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 8, stones = \[3,1,4\].<br>- Alice removes 3 and gets 1 + 4 = 5 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 8, stones = \[1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 1 and gets 4 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[4\].<br>- Alice removes 4 and gets 0 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[\].<br>The score difference is 18 - 12 = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,90,5,1,100,10,10,2\]<br>Output: 122<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    maxLength = currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>    <br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num  0:<br>            currentLen += 1<br>            if currentNegLen  0:<br>                currentNegLen += 1<br>        elif num < 0:<br>            currentLen, currentNegLen = currentNegLen, currentLen + 1<br>        else:<br>            currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>        maxLength = max(maxLength, currentLen)<br>    <br>    return maxLength

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1872.txt
> def can_eat(candiesCount, queries):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, while the number of stones is more than one, they will do the following:<br><br>1.  Choose an integer `x  1`, and remove the leftmost `x` stones from the row.<br>2.  Add the sum of the removed stones' values to the player's score.<br>3.  Place a new stone, whose value is equal to that sum, on the left side of the row.<br><br>The game stops when only one stone is left in the row.<br><br>The score difference between Alice and Bob is `(Alice's score - Bob's score)`. Alice's goal is to maximize the score difference, and Bob's goal is the minimize the score difference.<br><br>Given an integer array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the score difference between Alice and Bob if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-1,2,-3,4,-5\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes the first 4 stones, adds (-1) + 2 + (-3) + 4 = 2 to her score, and places a stone of<br>  value 2 on the left. stones = \[2,-5\].<br>- Bob removes the first 2 stones, adds 2 + (-5) = -3 to his score, and places a stone of value -3 on<br>  the left. stones = \[-3\].<br>The difference between their scores is 2 - (-3) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,-6,5,10,5,-2,-6\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes all stones, adds 7 + (-6) + 5 + 10 + 5 + (-2) + (-6) = 13 to her score, and places a<br>  stone of value 13 on the left. stones = \[13\].<br>The difference between their scores is 13 - 0 = 13.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-10,-12\]<br>Output: -22<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice can only make one move, which is to remove both stones. She adds (-10) + (-12) = -22 to her<br>  score and places a stone of value -22 on the left. stones = \[-22\].<br>The difference between their scores is (-22) - 0 = -22.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    prefix_sum = [0]  (len(candiesCount) + 1)<br>    for i in range(len(candiesCount)):<br>        prefix_sum[i + 1] = prefix_sum[i] + candiesCount[i]<br><br>    result = [False]  len(queries)<br>    for i in range(len(queries)):<br>        favoriteType, favoriteDay, dailyCap = queries[i]<br>        x1 = favoriteDay + 1<br>        y1 = (favoriteDay + 1)  dailyCap<br><br>        x2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType] + 1<br>        y2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType + 1]<br><br>        result[i] = not (x1  y2 or y1 < x2)<br><br>    return result

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2105.txt
> def numberOfGoodSubsets(nums: list[int]) - int:<br>    """Alice and Bob want to water `n` plants in their garden. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. Alice and Bob have a watering can each, initially full. They water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Alice waters the plants in order from left to right, starting from the `0th` plant. Bob waters the plants in order from right to left, starting from the `(n - 1)th` plant. They begin watering the plants simultaneously.<br>   It takes the same amount of time to water each plant regardless of how much water it needs.<br>   Alice/Bob must water the plant if they have enough in their can to fully water it. Otherwise, they first refill their can (instantaneously) then water the plant.<br>   In case both Alice and Bob reach the same plant, the one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and two integers `capacityA` and `capacityB` representing the capacities of Alice's and Bob's watering cans respectively, return _the number of times they have to refill to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 5, capacityB = 5<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 5 units of water each in their watering cans.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 3 units and 2 units of water respectively.<br>- Alice has enough water for plant 1, so she waters it. Bob does not have enough water for plant 2, so he refills his can then waters it.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 0 + 1 + 0 = 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 3, capacityB = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 3 units and 4 units of water in their watering cans respectively.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 1 unit of water each, and need to water plants 1 and 2 respectively.<br>- Since neither of them have enough water for their current plants, they refill their cans and then water the plants.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 1 + 1 + 0 = 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[5\], capacityA = 10, capacityB = 8<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>- There is only one plant.<br>- Alice's watering can has 10 units of water, whereas Bob's can has 8 units. Since Alice has more water in her can, she waters this plant.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacityA, capacityB <= 109`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br><br>    def is_prime(n: int) - bool:<br>        if n <= 1:<br>            return False<br>        for i in range(2, int(n0.5) + 1):<br>            if n % i == 0:<br>                return False<br>        return True<br><br>    primes = [i for i in range(2, 91) if is_prime(i)]<br>    cnt = [0]  100<br>    for n in nums:<br>        cnt[n] += 1<br><br>    dp = [0]  (1 << 20)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    <br>    for i in range(30, 0, -1):<br>        if cnt[i] == 0:<br>            continue<br>        mask = [j for j in primes if i % j == 0]<br>        i = i // j<br>        if i  1:<br>            continue<br><br>        m = 0<br>        for j in mask:<br>            m |= 1 << (j - 2)<br><br>        for j in range(len(dp)-1, -1, -1):<br>            if dp[j] == 0:<br>                continue<br>            cur = 1<br>            for k in range(cnt[m]):<br>                cur = (cur  2) % MOD<br>                dp[j | m] = (dp[j | m] + dp[j]  cur) % MOD<br><br>    ans = sum(dp) % MOD<br>    ans = (ans - dp[0] + MOD) % MOD<br>    return (ans  (1 << (cnt[1] - 1))) % MOD

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_452.txt
> def findMinArrowShots(points):<br>    """There are some spherical balloons taped onto a flat wall that represents the XY-plane. The balloons are represented as a 2D integer array `points` where `points[i] = [xstart, xend]` denotes a balloon whose horizontal diameter stretches between `xstart` and `xend`. You do not know the exact y-coordinates of the balloons.<br><br>Arrows can be shot up directly vertically (in the positive y-direction) from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with `xstart` and `xend` is burst by an arrow shot at `x` if `xstart <= x <= xend`. There is no limit to the number of arrows that can be shot. A shot arrow keeps traveling up infinitely, bursting any balloons in its path.<br><br>Given the array `points`, return _the minimum number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[10,16\],\[2,8\],\[1,6\],\[7,12\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 6, bursting the balloons \[2,8\] and \[1,6\].<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 11, bursting the balloons \[10,16\] and \[7,12\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\],\[5,6\],\[7,8\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: One arrow needs to be shot for each balloon for a total of 4 arrows.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 2, bursting the balloons \[1,2\] and \[2,3\].<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 4, bursting the balloons \[3,4\] and \[4,5\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 105`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-231 <= xstart < xend <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    if not points:<br>        return 0<br>    points.sort(key=lambda x: x[1])<br><br>    arrows = 1<br>    end = points[0][1]<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(points)):<br>        if points[i][0]  end:<br>            arrows += 1<br>            end = points[i][1]<br><br>    return arrows

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1406.txt
> def stoneGameIII(stoneValue):<br>    """Alice and Bob continue their games with piles of stones. There are several stones arranged in a row, and each stone has an associated value which is an integer given in the array `stoneValue`.<br><br>Alice and Bob take turns, with Alice starting first. On each player's turn, that player can take `1`, `2`, or `3` stones from the first remaining stones in the row.<br><br>The score of each player is the sum of the values of the stones taken. The score of each player is `0` initially.<br><br>The objective of the game is to end with the highest score, and the winner is the player with the highest score and there could be a tie. The game continues until all the stones have been taken.<br><br>Assume Alice and Bob play optimally.<br><br>Return `"Alice "` _if Alice will win,_ `"Bob "` _if Bob will win, or_ `"Tie "` _if they will end the game with the same score_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,7\]<br>Output:  "Bob "<br>Explanation: Alice will always lose. Her best move will be to take three piles and the score become 6. Now the score of Bob is 7 and Bob wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,-9\]<br>Output:  "Alice "<br>Explanation: Alice must choose all the three piles at the first move to win and leave Bob with negative score.<br>If Alice chooses one pile her score will be 1 and the next move Bob's score becomes 5. In the next move, Alice will take the pile with value = -9 and lose.<br>If Alice chooses two piles her score will be 3 and the next move Bob's score becomes 3. In the next move, Alice will take the pile with value = -9 and also lose.<br>Remember that both play optimally so here Alice will choose the scenario that makes her win.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,6\]<br>Output:  "Tie "<br>Explanation: Alice cannot win this game. She can end the game in a draw if she decided to choose all the first three piles, otherwise she will lose.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stoneValue.length <= 5  104`<br>   `-1000 <= stoneValue[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    n = len(stoneValue)<br>    dp = [float("-inf")]  (n + 1)<br>    dp[n] = 0<br>    <br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        curr = 0<br>        for j in range(3):<br>            if i + j < n:<br>                curr += stoneValue[i + j]<br>                dp[i] = max(dp[i], curr - dp[i + j + 1])<br>                <br>    return "Tie " if dp[0] == 0 else "Alice " if dp[0]  0 else "Bob "


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2002.txt
> def stoneGameVII(stones):<br>    """Given a string `s`, find two disjoint palindromic subsequences of `s` such that the product of their lengths is maximized. The two subsequences are disjoint if they do not both pick a character at the same index.<br><br>Return _the maximum possible product of the lengths of the two palindromic subsequences_.<br><br>A subsequence is a string that can be derived from another string by deleting some or no characters without changing the order of the remaining characters. A string is palindromic if it reads the same forward and backward.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "leetcodecom "<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is to choose  "ete " for the 1st subsequence and  "cdc " for the 2nd subsequence.<br>The product of their lengths is: 3 \ 3 = 9.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "bb "<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is to choose  "b " (the first character) for the 1st subsequence and  "b " (the second character) for the 2nd subsequence.<br>The product of their lengths is: 1 \ 1 = 1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "accbcaxxcxx "<br>Output: 25<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is to choose  "accca " for the 1st subsequence and  "xxcxx " for the 2nd subsequence.<br>The product of their lengths is: 5 \ 5 = 25.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= s.length <= 12`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters only."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            dp[i][j] = max(stones[i] - dp[i + 1][j], stones[j] - dp[i][j - 1])<br><br>    return dp[0][n - 1]
