# Query `112`

## Original Question

*Alice is a caretaker of `n` gardens and she wants to plant flowers to maximize the total beauty of all her gardens.

You are given a 0-indexed integer array `flowers` of size `n`, where `flowers[i]` is the number of flowers already planted in the `ith` garden. Flowers that are already planted cannot be removed. You are then given another integer `newFlowers`, which is the maximum number of flowers that Alice can additionally plant. You are also given the integers `target`, `full`, and `partial`.

A garden is considered complete if it has at least `target` flowers. The total beauty of the gardens is then determined as the sum of the following:

   The number of complete gardens multiplied by `full`.
   The minimum number of flowers in any of the incomplete gardens multiplied by `partial`. If there are no incomplete gardens, then this value will be `0`.

Return _the maximum total beauty that Alice can obtain after planting at most_ `newFlowers` _flowers._

Example 1:

Input: flowers = \[1,3,1,1\], newFlowers = 7, target = 6, full = 12, partial = 1
Output: 14
Explanation: Alice can plant
- 2 flowers in the 0th garden
- 3 flowers in the 1st garden
- 1 flower in the 2nd garden
- 1 flower in the 3rd garden
The gardens will then be \[3,6,2,2\]. She planted a total of 2 + 3 + 1 + 1 = 7 flowers.
There is 1 garden that is complete.
The minimum number of flowers in the incomplete gardens is 2.
Thus, the total beauty is 1 \ 12 + 2 \ 1 = 12 + 2 = 14.
No other way of planting flowers can obtain a total beauty higher than 14.

Example 2:

Input: flowers = \[2,4,5,3\], newFlowers = 10, target = 5, full = 2, partial = 6
Output: 30
Explanation: Alice can plant
- 3 flowers in the 0th garden
- 0 flowers in the 1st garden
- 0 flowers in the 2nd garden
- 2 flowers in the 3rd garden
The gardens will then be \[5,4,5,5\]. She planted a total of 3 + 0 + 0 + 2 = 5 flowers.
There are 3 gardens that are complete.
The minimum number of flowers in the incomplete gardens is 4.
Thus, the total beauty is 3 \ 2 + 4 \ 6 = 6 + 24 = 30.
No other way of planting flowers can obtain a total beauty higher than 30.
Note that Alice could make all the gardens complete but in this case, she would obtain a lower total beauty.

Constraints:

   `1 <= flowers.length <= 105`
   `1 <= flowers[i], target <= 105`
   `1 <= newFlowers <= 1010`
   `1 <= full, partial <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2105.txt
> def numberOfGoodSubsets(nums: list[int]) - int:<br>    """Alice and Bob want to water `n` plants in their garden. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. Alice and Bob have a watering can each, initially full. They water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Alice waters the plants in order from left to right, starting from the `0th` plant. Bob waters the plants in order from right to left, starting from the `(n - 1)th` plant. They begin watering the plants simultaneously.<br>   It takes the same amount of time to water each plant regardless of how much water it needs.<br>   Alice/Bob must water the plant if they have enough in their can to fully water it. Otherwise, they first refill their can (instantaneously) then water the plant.<br>   In case both Alice and Bob reach the same plant, the one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and two integers `capacityA` and `capacityB` representing the capacities of Alice's and Bob's watering cans respectively, return _the number of times they have to refill to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 5, capacityB = 5<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 5 units of water each in their watering cans.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 3 units and 2 units of water respectively.<br>- Alice has enough water for plant 1, so she waters it. Bob does not have enough water for plant 2, so he refills his can then waters it.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 0 + 1 + 0 = 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 3, capacityB = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 3 units and 4 units of water in their watering cans respectively.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 1 unit of water each, and need to water plants 1 and 2 respectively.<br>- Since neither of them have enough water for their current plants, they refill their cans and then water the plants.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 1 + 1 + 0 = 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[5\], capacityA = 10, capacityB = 8<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>- There is only one plant.<br>- Alice's watering can has 10 units of water, whereas Bob's can has 8 units. Since Alice has more water in her can, she waters this plant.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacityA, capacityB <= 109`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br><br>    def is_prime(n: int) - bool:<br>        if n <= 1:<br>            return False<br>        for i in range(2, int(n0.5) + 1):<br>            if n % i == 0:<br>                return False<br>        return True<br><br>    primes = [i for i in range(2, 91) if is_prime(i)]<br>    cnt = [0]  100<br>    for n in nums:<br>        cnt[n] += 1<br><br>    dp = [0]  (1 << 20)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    <br>    for i in range(30, 0, -1):<br>        if cnt[i] == 0:<br>            continue<br>        mask = [j for j in primes if i % j == 0]<br>        i = i // j<br>        if i  1:<br>            continue<br><br>        m = 0<br>        for j in mask:<br>            m |= 1 << (j - 2)<br><br>        for j in range(len(dp)-1, -1, -1):<br>            if dp[j] == 0:<br>                continue<br>            cur = 1<br>            for k in range(cnt[m]):<br>                cur = (cur  2) % MOD<br>                dp[j | m] = (dp[j | m] + dp[j]  cur) % MOD<br><br>    ans = sum(dp) % MOD<br>    ans = (ans - dp[0] + MOD) % MOD<br>    return (ans  (1 << (cnt[1] - 1))) % MOD

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1482.txt
> def smallerNumbersThanCurrent(nums):<br>    """You are given an integer array `bloomDay`, an integer `m` and an integer `k`.<br><br>You want to make `m` bouquets. To make a bouquet, you need to use `k` adjacent flowers from the garden.<br><br>The garden consists of `n` flowers, the `ith` flower will bloom in the `bloomDay[i]` and then can be used in exactly one bouquet.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of days you need to wait to be able to make_ `m` _bouquets from the garden_. If it is impossible to make m bouquets return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[1,10,3,10,2\], m = 3, k = 1<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Let us see what happened in the first three days. x means flower bloomed and \_ means flower did not bloom in the garden.<br>We need 3 bouquets each should contain 1 flower.<br>After day 1: \[x, \_, \_, \_, \_\]   // we can only make one bouquet.<br>After day 2: \[x, \_, \_, \_, x\]   // we can only make two bouquets.<br>After day 3: \[x, \_, x, \_, x\]   // we can make 3 bouquets. The answer is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[1,10,3,10,2\], m = 3, k = 2<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We need 3 bouquets each has 2 flowers, that means we need 6 flowers. We only have 5 flowers so it is impossible to get the needed bouquets and we return -1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[7,7,7,7,12,7,7\], m = 2, k = 3<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: We need 2 bouquets each should have 3 flowers.<br>Here is the garden after the 7 and 12 days:<br>After day 7: \[x, x, x, x, \_, x, x\]<br>We can make one bouquet of the first three flowers that bloomed. We cannot make another bouquet from the last three flowers that bloomed because they are not adjacent.<br>After day 12: \[x, x, x, x, x, x, x\]<br>It is obvious that we can make two bouquets in different ways.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `bloomDay.length == n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= bloomDay[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= m <= 106`<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    result = [0]  len(nums)<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(len(nums)):<br>            if nums[j] < nums[i]:<br>                result[i] += 1<br>    return result

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1042.txt
> def mergeStones(stones, k):<br>    """You have `n` gardens, labeled from `1` to `n`, and an array `paths` where `paths[i] = [xi, yi]` describes a bidirectional path between garden `xi` to garden `yi`. In each garden, you want to plant one of 4 types of flowers.<br><br>All gardens have at most 3 paths coming into or leaving it.<br><br>Your task is to choose a flower type for each garden such that, for any two gardens connected by a path, they have different types of flowers.<br><br>Return _any such a choice as an array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the type of flower planted in the_ `(i+1)th` _garden. The flower types are denoted_ `1`_,_ `2`_,_ `3`_, or_ `4`_. It is guaranteed an answer exists._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>Gardens 1 and 2 have different types.<br>Gardens 2 and 3 have different types.<br>Gardens 3 and 1 have different types.<br>Hence, \[1,2,3\] is a valid answer. Other valid answers include \[1,2,4\], \[1,4,2\], and \[3,2,1\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,1,2\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,1\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `0 <= paths.length <= 2  104`<br>   `paths[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= xi, yi <= n`<br>   `xi != yi`<br>   Every garden has at most 3 paths coming into or leaving it."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    if (n - 1) % (k - 1) != 0:<br>        return -1<br>    prefixSum = [0]  (n + 1)<br>    dp = [[[-1]  (k + 1) for _ in range(n)] for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        prefixSum[i + 1] = prefixSum[i] + stones[i]<br><br>    for l in range(2, n + 1):<br>        for i in range(n - l + 1):<br>            j = i + l - 1<br>            for m in range(2, k + 1):<br>                for p in range(i, j + 1 - m + 1, k - 1):<br>                    dp[i][j][m] = (dp[i][p][1] + dp[p + 1][j][m - 1]) % (1e9 + 7)<br>            if (j - i) % (k - 1) == 0:<br>                dp[i][j][1] = (dp[i][j][k] + prefixSum[j + 1] - prefixSum[i]) % (1e9 + 7)<br><br>    return dp[0][n - 1][1]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2079.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """You want to water `n` plants in your garden with a watering can. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`. There is a river at `x = -1` that you can refill your watering can at.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. You will water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Water the plants in order from left to right.<br>   After watering the current plant, if you do not have enough water to completely water the next plant, return to the river to fully refill the watering can.<br>   You cannot refill the watering can early.<br><br>You are initially at the river (i.e., `x = -1`). It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and an integer `capacity` representing the watering can capacity, return _the number of steps needed to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacity = 5<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:<br>- Walk to plant 0 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 3 units of water.<br>- Walk to plant 1 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 1 unit of water.<br>- Since you cannot completely water plant 2, walk back to the river to refill (2 steps).<br>- Walk to plant 2 (3 steps) and water it. Watering can has 2 units of water.<br>- Since you cannot completely water plant 3, walk back to the river to refill (3 steps).<br>- Walk to plant 3 (4 steps) and water it.<br>Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 = 14.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[1,1,1,4,2,3\], capacity = 4<br>Output: 30<br>Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:<br>- Water plants 0, 1, and 2 (3 steps). Return to river (3 steps).<br>- Water plant 3 (4 steps). Return to river (4 steps).<br>- Water plant 4 (5 steps). Return to river (5 steps).<br>- Water plant 5 (6 steps).<br>Steps needed = 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 = 30.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\], capacity = 8<br>Output: 49<br>Explanation: You have to refill before watering each plant.<br>Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 + 6 + 7 = 49.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacity <= 109`"""<br><br><br>def deleteDuplicateFolder(paths):<br>    graph = defaultdict(set)<br>    count = defaultdict(int)<br><br>    for path in paths:<br>        serialized_path = ""<br>        for folder in path:<br>            serialized_path += "/" + folder<br>            graph[serialized_path].add(folder)<br><br>    for value in graph.values():<br>        count[str(value)] += 1<br><br>    ans = []<br>    for path in paths:<br>        serialized_path = ""<br>        duplicate = False<br>        for folder in path:<br>            serialized_path += "/" + folder<br>            if count[str(graph[serialized_path])]  1:<br>                duplicate = True<br>                break<br>        if not duplicate:<br>            ans.append(path)<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_575.txt
> def maxNumberOfCandies(candyType):<br>    """Alice has `n` candies, where the `ith` candy is of type `candyType[i]`. Alice noticed that she started to gain weight, so she visited a doctor.<br><br>The doctor advised Alice to only eat `n / 2` of the candies she has (`n` is always even). Alice likes her candies very much, and she wants to eat the maximum number of different types of candies while still following the doctor's advice.<br><br>Given the integer array `candyType` of length `n`, return _the maximum number of different types of candies she can eat if she only eats_ `n / 2` _of them_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[1,1,2,2,3,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 6 / 2 = 3 candies. Since there are only 3 types, she can eat one of each type.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[1,1,2,3\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 4 / 2 = 2 candies. Whether she eats types \[1,2\], \[1,3\], or \[2,3\], she still can only eat 2 different types.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[6,6,6,6\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 4 / 2 = 2 candies. Even though she can eat 2 candies, she only has 1 type.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == candyType.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 104`<br>   `n` is even.<br>   `-105 <= candyType[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    uniqueCandies = set(candyType)<br>    return min(len(uniqueCandies), len(candyType) // 2)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_410.txt
> def splitArray(nums, m):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, split `nums` into `k` non-empty subarrays such that the largest sum of any subarray is minimized.<br><br>Return _the minimized largest sum of the split_.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous part of the array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,2,5,10,8\], k = 2<br>Output: 18<br>Explanation: There are four ways to split nums into two subarrays.<br>The best way is to split it into \[7,2,5\] and \[10,8\], where the largest sum among the two subarrays is only 18.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4,5\], k = 2<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: There are four ways to split nums into two subarrays.<br>The best way is to split it into \[1,2,3\] and \[4,5\], where the largest sum among the two subarrays is only 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 106`<br>   `1 <= k <= min(50, nums.length)`"""<br><br>    left, right = max(nums), sum(nums)<br><br>    while left < right:<br>        mid = (left + right) // 2<br>        count, cur_sum = 1, 0<br>        for num in nums:<br>            cur_sum += num<br>            if cur_sum  mid:<br>                cur_sum = num<br>                count += 1<br><br>        if count  m:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid<br><br>    return left
