# Query `113`

## Original Question

*You are given an integer `total` indicating the amount of money you have. You are also given two integers `cost1` and `cost2` indicating the price of a pen and pencil respectively. You can spend part or all of your money to buy multiple quantities (or none) of each kind of writing utensil.

Return _the number of distinct ways you can buy some number of pens and pencils._

Example 1:

Input: total = 20, cost1 = 10, cost2 = 5
Output: 9
Explanation: The price of a pen is 10 and the price of a pencil is 5.
- If you buy 0 pens, you can buy 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 pencils.
- If you buy 1 pen, you can buy 0, 1, or 2 pencils.
- If you buy 2 pens, you cannot buy any pencils.
The total number of ways to buy pens and pencils is 5 + 3 + 1 = 9.

Example 2:

Input: total = 5, cost1 = 10, cost2 = 10
Output: 1
Explanation: The price of both pens and pencils are 10, which cost more than total, so you cannot buy any writing utensils. Therefore, there is only 1 way: buy 0 pens and 0 pencils.

Constraints:

   `1 <= total, cost1, cost2 <= 106`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0018
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1833.txt
> def largestAltitude(gain):<br>    """It is a sweltering summer day, and a boy wants to buy some ice cream bars.<br><br>At the store, there are `n` ice cream bars. You are given an array `costs` of length `n`, where `costs[i]` is the price of the `ith` ice cream bar in coins. The boy initially has `coins` coins to spend, and he wants to buy as many ice cream bars as possible.<br><br>Note: The boy can buy the ice cream bars in any order.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of ice cream bars the boy can buy with_ `coins` _coins._<br><br>You must solve the problem by counting sort.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: costs = \[1,3,2,4,1\], coins = 7<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The boy can buy ice cream bars at indices 0,1,2,4 for a total price of 1 + 3 + 2 + 1 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: costs = \[10,6,8,7,7,8\], coins = 5<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The boy cannot afford any of the ice cream bars.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: costs = \[1,6,3,1,2,5\], coins = 20<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The boy can buy all the ice cream bars for a total price of 1 + 6 + 3 + 1 + 2 + 5 = 18.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `costs.length == n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= costs[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= coins <= 108`"""<br><br>    max_altitude, current_altitude = 0, 0<br>    for i in gain:<br>        current_altitude += i<br>        max_altitude = max(max_altitude, current_altitude)<br>    return max_altitude

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2144.txt
> def max_difference(nums):<br>    """A shop is selling candies at a discount. For every two candies sold, the shop gives a third candy for free.<br><br>The customer can choose any candy to take away for free as long as the cost of the chosen candy is less than or equal to the minimum cost of the two candies bought.<br><br>   For example, if there are `4` candies with costs `1`, `2`, `3`, and `4`, and the customer buys candies with costs `2` and `3`, they can take the candy with cost `1` for free, but not the candy with cost `4`.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `cost`, where `cost[i]` denotes the cost of the `ith` candy, return _the minimum cost of buying all the candies_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: cost = \[1,2,3\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: We buy the candies with costs 2 and 3, and take the candy with cost 1 for free.<br>The total cost of buying all candies is 2 + 3 = 5. This is the only way we can buy the candies.<br>Note that we cannot buy candies with costs 1 and 3, and then take the candy with cost 2 for free.<br>The cost of the free candy has to be less than or equal to the minimum cost of the purchased candies.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: cost = \[6,5,7,9,2,2\]<br>Output: 23<br>Explanation: The way in which we can get the minimum cost is described below:<br>- Buy candies with costs 9 and 7<br>- Take the candy with cost 6 for free<br>- We buy candies with costs 5 and 2<br>- Take the last remaining candy with cost 2 for free<br>Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 9 + 7 + 5 + 2 = 23.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: cost = \[5,5\]<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: Since there are only 2 candies, we buy both of them. There is not a third candy we can take for free.<br>Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 5 + 5 = 10.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= cost.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= cost[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    min_val = nums[0]<br>    max_diff = -1<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i]  min_val:<br>            max_diff = max(max_diff, nums[i] - min_val)<br>        else:<br>            min_val = nums[i]<br><br>    return max_diff

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2312.txt
> def max_count_target(nums, key):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` that represent the height and width of a rectangular piece of wood. You are also given a 2D integer array `prices`, where `prices[i] = [hi, wi, pricei]` indicates you can sell a rectangular piece of wood of height `hi` and width `wi` for `pricei` dollars.<br><br>To cut a piece of wood, you must make a vertical or horizontal cut across the entire height or width of the piece to split it into two smaller pieces. After cutting a piece of wood into some number of smaller pieces, you can sell pieces according to `prices`. You may sell multiple pieces of the same shape, and you do not have to sell all the shapes. The grain of the wood makes a difference, so you cannot rotate a piece to swap its height and width.<br><br>Return _the maximum money you can earn after cutting an_ `m x n` _piece of wood_.<br><br>Note that you can cut the piece of wood as many times as you want.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 5, prices = \[\[1,4,2\],\[2,2,7\],\[2,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 19<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 2 pieces of wood shaped 2 x 2, selling for a price of 2 \ 7 = 14.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 2 x 1, selling for a price of 1 \ 3 = 3.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 14 + 3 + 2 = 19 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 19 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, prices = \[\[3,2,10\],\[1,4,2\],\[4,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 32<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 3 pieces of wood shaped 3 x 2, selling for a price of 3 \ 10 = 30.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 30 + 2 = 32 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 32 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br>Notice that we cannot rotate the 1 x 4 piece of wood to obtain a 4 x 1 piece of wood.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 2  104`<br>   `prices[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= hi <= m`<br>   `1 <= wi <= n`<br>   `1 <= pricei <= 106`<br>   All the shapes of wood `(hi, wi)` are pairwise distinct."""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    max_count = 0<br>    max_target = -1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i - 1] == key:<br>            count[nums[i]] = count.get(nums[i], 0) + 1<br>            if count[nums[i]]  max_count:<br>                max_count = count[nums[i]]<br>                max_target = nums[i]<br>    return max_target

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_122.txt
> def max_profit(prices):<br>    """You are given an integer array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.<br><br>On each day, you may decide to buy and/or sell the stock. You can only hold at most one share of the stock at any time. However, you can buy it then immediately sell it on the same day.<br><br>Find and return _the maximum profit you can achieve_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: prices = \[7,1,5,3,6,4\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 3 (price = 5), profit = 5-1 = 4.<br>Then buy on day 4 (price = 3) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-3 = 3.<br>Total profit is 4 + 3 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: prices = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: Buy on day 1 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 5), profit = 5-1 = 4.<br>Total profit is 4.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: prices = \[7,6,4,3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no way to make a positive profit, so we never buy the stock to achieve the maximum profit of 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 3  104`<br>   `0 <= prices[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    max_profit = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(prices)):<br>        if prices[i]  prices[i - 1]:<br>            max_profit += prices[i] - prices[i - 1]<br>    return max_profit

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1928.txt
> from heapq import heappush, heappop<br>    """There is a country of `n` cities numbered from `0` to `n - 1` where all the cities are connected by bi-directional roads. The roads are represented as a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [xi, yi, timei]` denotes a road between cities `xi` and `yi` that takes `timei` minutes to travel. There may be multiple roads of differing travel times connecting the same two cities, but no road connects a city to itself.<br><br>Each time you pass through a city, you must pay a passing fee. This is represented as a 0-indexed integer array `passingFees` of length `n` where `passingFees[j]` is the amount of dollars you must pay when you pass through city `j`.<br><br>In the beginning, you are at city `0` and want to reach city `n - 1` in `maxTime` minutes or less. The cost of your journey is the summation of passing fees for each city that you passed through at some moment of your journey (including the source and destination cities).<br><br>Given `maxTime`, `edges`, and `passingFees`, return _the minimum cost to complete your journey, or_ `-1` _if you cannot complete it within_ `maxTime` _minutes_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: maxTime = 30, edges = \[\[0,1,10\],\[1,2,10\],\[2,5,10\],\[0,3,1\],\[3,4,10\],\[4,5,15\]\], passingFees = \[5,1,2,20,20,3\]<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation: The path to take is 0 - 1 - 2 - 5, which takes 30 minutes and has $11 worth of passing fees.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: maxTime = 29, edges = \[\[0,1,10\],\[1,2,10\],\[2,5,10\],\[0,3,1\],\[3,4,10\],\[4,5,15\]\], passingFees = \[5,1,2,20,20,3\]<br>Output: 48<br>Explanation: The path to take is 0 - 3 - 4 - 5, which takes 26 minutes and has $48 worth of passing fees.<br>You cannot take path 0 - 1 - 2 - 5 since it would take too long.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: maxTime = 25, edges = \[\[0,1,10\],\[1,2,10\],\[2,5,10\],\[0,3,1\],\[3,4,10\],\[4,5,15\]\], passingFees = \[5,1,2,20,20,3\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is no way to reach city 5 from city 0 within 25 minutes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= maxTime <= 1000`<br>   `n == passingFees.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `n - 1 <= edges.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= n - 1`<br>   `1 <= timei <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= passingFees[j] <= 1000`<br>   The graph may contain multiple edges between two nodes.<br>   The graph does not contain self loops."""<br><br><br>def getNumberOfBacklogOrders(orders):<br>    buy, sell = [], []<br><br>    for price, amount, orderType in orders:<br>        if orderType == 0:<br>            while amount  0 and sell and -sell[0][0] <= price:<br>                executedAmount = min(amount, sell[0][1])<br>                amount -= executedAmount<br>                sell[0] = [-sell[0][0], sell[0][1] - executedAmount]<br>                if sell[0][1] == 0:<br>                    heappop(sell)<br>            if amount:<br>                heappush(buy, [-price, amount])<br>        else:<br>            while amount  0 and buy and buy[0][0] = price:<br>                executedAmount = min(amount, buy[0][1])<br>                amount -= executedAmount<br>                buy[0] = [buy[0][0], buy[0][1] - executedAmount]<br>                if buy[0][1] == 0:<br>                    heappop(buy)<br>            if amount:<br>                heappush(sell, [-price, amount])<br><br>    res = sum(item[1] for item in buy) + sum(item[1] for item in sell)<br>    return res % 1000000007


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2177.txt
> def almost_equivalent(word1, word2):<br>    """Given an integer `num`, return _three consecutive integers (as a sorted array)_ _that sum to_ `num`. If `num` cannot be expressed as the sum of three consecutive integers, return _an empty array._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 33<br>Output: \[10,11,12\]<br>Explanation: 33 can be expressed as 10 + 11 + 12 = 33.<br>10, 11, 12 are 3 consecutive integers, so we return \[10, 11, 12\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 4<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation: There is no way to express 4 as the sum of 3 consecutive integers.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= num <= 1015`"""<br><br>    freq1 = {}<br>    freq2 = {}<br><br>    for c in word1:<br>        freq1[c] = freq1.get(c, 0) + 1<br>    for c in word2:<br>        freq2[c] = freq2.get(c, 0) + 1<br><br>    for c in "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz":<br>        if abs(freq1.get(c, 0) - freq2.get(c, 0))  3:<br>            return False<br><br>    return True

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2180.txt
> def max_tasks(tasks, workers, pills, strength):<br>    """Given a positive integer `num`, return _the number of positive integers less than or equal to_ `num` _whose digit sums are even_.<br><br>The digit sum of a positive integer is the sum of all its digits.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>The only integers less than or equal to 4 whose digit sums are even are 2 and 4.    <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 30<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation:<br>The 14 integers less than or equal to 30 whose digit sums are even are<br>2, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 24, 26, and 28.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= num <= 1000`"""<br><br>    tasks.sort()<br>    workers.sort()<br>    task_index = 0<br>    pill_index = pills<br>    completed_tasks = 0<br><br>    for worker_strength in workers:<br>        while pill_index  0 and worker_strength + strength = tasks[task_index]:<br>            worker_strength += strength<br>            pill_index -= 1<br>        <br>        if worker_strength = tasks[task_index]:<br>            task_index += 1<br>            completed_tasks += 1<br><br>        if task_index = len(tasks):<br>            break<br><br>    return completed_tasks
