# Query `114`

## Original Question

*You are given a 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n`, where each cell contains a positive integer.

A cornered path is defined as a set of adjacent cells with at most one turn. More specifically, the path should exclusively move either horizontally or vertically up to the turn (if there is one), without returning to a previously visited cell. After the turn, the path will then move exclusively in the alternate direction: move vertically if it moved horizontally, and vice versa, also without returning to a previously visited cell.

The product of a path is defined as the product of all the values in the path.

Return _the maximum number of trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path found in_ `grid`.

Note:

   Horizontal movement means moving in either the left or right direction.
   Vertical movement means moving in either the up or down direction.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[23,17,15,3,20\],\[8,1,20,27,11\],\[9,4,6,2,21\],\[40,9,1,10,6\],\[22,7,4,5,3\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation: The grid on the left shows a valid cornered path.
It has a product of 15 \ 20 \ 6 \ 1 \ 10 = 18000 which has 3 trailing zeros.
It can be shown that this is the maximum trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path.

The grid in the middle is not a cornered path as it has more than one turn.
The grid on the right is not a cornered path as it requires a return to a previously visited cell.

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[4,3,2\],\[7,6,1\],\[8,8,8\]\]
Output: 0
Explanation: The grid is shown in the figure above.
There are no cornered paths in the grid that result in a product with a trailing zero.

Constraints:

   `m == grid.length`
   `n == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 105`
   `1 <= m  n <= 105`
   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 1000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0417
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1320
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1320
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2324
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0208
map_cut_50: 0.0208
map_cut_100: 0.0355
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1331.txt
> def getMaximumGold(grid):<br>    """Given an array of integers `arr`, replace each element with its rank.<br><br>The rank represents how large the element is. The rank has the following rules:<br><br>   Rank is an integer starting from 1.<br>   The larger the element, the larger the rank. If two elements are equal, their rank must be the same.<br>   Rank should be as small as possible.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[40,10,20,30\]<br>Output: \[4,1,2,3\]<br>Explanation: 40 is the largest element. 10 is the smallest. 20 is the second smallest. 30 is the third smallest.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[100,100,100\]<br>Output: \[1,1,1\]<br>Explanation: Same elements share the same rank.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[37,12,28,9,100,56,80,5,12\]<br>Output: \[5,3,4,2,8,6,7,1,3\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= arr.length <= 105`<br>   `-109 <= arr[i] <= 109`<br><br>\- Every time you are in a cell you will collect all the gold in that cell. - From your position, you can walk one step to the left, right, up, or down. - You can't visit the same cell more than once. - Never visit a cell with 0 gold. - You can start and stop collecting gold from any position in the grid that has some gold."""<br><br>    m, n, max_gold = len(grid), len(grid[0]), 0<br><br>    def getMaximumGoldHelper(x, y):<br>        if not (0 <= x < m) or not (0 <= y < n) or grid[x][y] == 0:<br>            return 0<br><br>        original_gold = grid[x][y]<br>        grid[x][y] = 0<br><br>        max_gold = 0<br>        max_gold = max(max_gold, getMaximumGoldHelper(x + 1, y))<br>        max_gold = max(max_gold, getMaximumGoldHelper(x - 1, y))<br>        max_gold = max(max_gold, getMaximumGoldHelper(x, y + 1))<br>        max_gold = max(max_gold, getMaximumGoldHelper(x, y - 1))<br><br>        grid[x][y] = original_gold<br>        return max_gold + original_gold<br><br>    for i in range(m):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if grid[i][j] != 0:<br>                max_gold = max(max_gold, getMaximumGoldHelper(i, j))<br><br>    return max_gold

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_935.txt
> def lex_smallest_string(s, k):<br>    """The chess knight has a unique movement, it may move two squares vertically and one square horizontally, or two squares horizontally and one square vertically (with both forming the shape of an L). The possible movements of chess knight are shown in this diagaram:<br><br>A chess knight can move as indicated in the chess diagram below:<br><br>We have a chess knight and a phone pad as shown below, the knight can only stand on a numeric cell (i.e. blue cell).<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return how many distinct phone numbers of length `n` we can dial.<br><br>You are allowed to place the knight on any numeric cell initially and then you should perform `n - 1` jumps to dial a number of length `n`. All jumps should be valid knight jumps.<br><br>As the answer may be very large, return the answer modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: We need to dial a number of length 1, so placing the knight over any numeric cell of the 10 cells is sufficient.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: All the valid number we can dial are \[04, 06, 16, 18, 27, 29, 34, 38, 40, 43, 49, 60, 61, 67, 72, 76, 81, 83, 92, 94\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3131<br>Output: 136006598<br>Explanation: Please take care of the mod.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`"""<br><br>    res = s<br>    for i in range(k):<br>        tmp = s[i:] + s[:i]<br>        if tmp < res:<br>            res = tmp<br>    return res

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1739.txt
> def check_palindrome_formation(a: str, b: str) - bool:<br>    """You have a cubic storeroom where the width, length, and height of the room are all equal to `n` units. You are asked to place `n` boxes in this room where each box is a cube of unit side length. There are however some rules to placing the boxes:<br><br>   You can place the boxes anywhere on the floor.<br>   If box `x` is placed on top of the box `y`, then each side of the four vertical sides of the box `y` must either be adjacent to another box or to a wall.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _the minimum possible number of boxes touching the floor._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the three boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the left side.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the four boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the left side.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the ten boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the back side.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    def is_palindrome(s: str, left: int, right: int) - bool:<br>        while left < right:<br>            if s[left] != s[right]:<br>                return False<br>            left += 1<br>            right -= 1<br>        return True<br><br>    i, j = 0, len(a) - 1<br>    while i < j:<br>        if a[i] != b[j]:<br>            return is_palindrome(a, i, j) or is_palindrome(b, i, j)<br>        i += 1<br>        j -= 1<br>    return True

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_62.txt
> def uniquePaths(m, n):<br>    """There is a robot on an `m x n` grid. The robot is initially located at the top-left corner (i.e., `grid[0][0]`). The robot tries to move to the bottom-right corner (i.e., `grid[m - 1][n - 1]`). The robot can only move either down or right at any point in time.<br><br>Given the two integers `m` and `n`, return _the number of possible unique paths that the robot can take to reach the bottom-right corner_.<br><br>The test cases are generated so that the answer will be less than or equal to `2  109`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 7<br>Output: 28<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 2<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: From the top-left corner, there are a total of 3 ways to reach the bottom-right corner:<br>1. Right - Down - Down<br>2. Down - Down - Right<br>3. Down - Right - Down<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 100`"""<br><br>    dp = [[1]  n for _ in range(m)]<br>    for i in range(1, m):<br>        for j in range(1, n):<br>            dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j] + dp[i][j - 1]<br>    return dp[m - 1][n - 1]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1001.txt
> def repeatedNTimes(nums):<br>    """There is a 2D `grid` of size `n x n` where each cell of this grid has a lamp that is initially turned off.<br><br>You are given a 2D array of lamp positions `lamps`, where `lamps[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the lamp at `grid[rowi][coli]` is turned on. Even if the same lamp is listed more than once, it is turned on.<br><br>When a lamp is turned on, it illuminates its cell and all other cells in the same row, column, or diagonal.<br><br>You are also given another 2D array `queries`, where `queries[j] = [rowj, colj]`. For the `jth` query, determine whether `grid[rowj][colj]` is illuminated or not. After answering the `jth` query, turn off the lamp at `grid[rowj][colj]` and its 8 adjacent lamps if they exist. A lamp is adjacent if its cell shares either a side or corner with `grid[rowj][colj]`.<br><br>Return _an array of integers_ `ans`_,_ _where_ `ans[j]` _should be_ `1` _if the cell in the_ `jth` _query was illuminated, or_ `0` _if the lamp was not._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,0\]<br>Explanation: We have the initial grid with all lamps turned off. In the above picture we see the grid after turning on the lamp at grid\[0\]\[0\] then turning on the lamp at grid\[4\]\[4\].<br>The 0th query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[1\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is illuminated, so set ans\[0\] = 1. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red square.<br> <br>The 1st query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[0\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is not illuminated, so set ans\[1\] = 0. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red rectangle.<br> <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[0,4\]\], queries = \[\[0,4\],\[0,1\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`<br>   `0 <= lamps.length <= 20000`<br>   `0 <= queries.length <= 20000`<br>   `lamps[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli < n`<br>   `queries[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowj, colj < n`"""<br><br>    hash_map = {}<br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num in hash_map:<br>            return num<br>        else:<br>            hash_map[num] = 1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 67, leetcode/leetcode_172.txt
> def trailing_zeroes(n: int) - int:<br>    """Given an integer `n`, return _the number of trailing zeroes in_ `n!`.<br><br>Note that `n! = n  (n - 1)  (n - 2)  ...  3  2  1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: 3! = 6, no trailing zero.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: 5! = 120, one trailing zero.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 0<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 104`<br><br>Follow up: Could you write a solution that works in logarithmic time complexity?"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    while n  0:<br>        n //= 5<br>        count += n<br>    return count

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 23, leetcode/leetcode_2117.txt
> def findOriginalArray(changed):<br>    """You are given two positive integers `left` and `right` with `left <= right`. Calculate the product of all integers in the inclusive range `[left, right]`.<br><br>Since the product may be very large, you will abbreviate it following these steps:<br><br>1.  Count all trailing zeros in the product and remove them. Let us denote this count as `C`.<br>       For example, there are `3` trailing zeros in `1000`, and there are `0` trailing zeros in `546`.<br>2.  Denote the remaining number of digits in the product as `d`. If `d  10`, then express the product as<br>    <br>        ...<br>    <br>3.  Finally, represent the product as a string `"`<br>    <br>        ...eC "<br>    <br><br>Return _a string denoting the abbreviated product of all integers in the inclusive range_ `[left, right]`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: left = 1, right = 4<br>Output:  "24e0 "<br>Explanation: The product is 1 \ 2 \ 3 \ 4 = 24.<br>There are no trailing zeros, so 24 remains the same. The abbreviation will end with  "e0 ".<br>Since the number of digits is 2, which is less than 10, we do not have to abbreviate it further.<br>Thus, the final representation is  "24e0 ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: left = 2, right = 11<br>Output:  "399168e2 "<br>Explanation: The product is 39916800.<br>There are 2 trailing zeros, which we remove to get 399168. The abbreviation will end with  "e2 ".<br>The number of digits after removing the trailing zeros is 6, so we do not abbreviate it further.<br>Hence, the abbreviated product is  "399168e2 ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: left = 371, right = 375<br>Output:  "7219856259e3 "<br>Explanation: The product is 7219856259000.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= left <= right <= 104`"""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    for num in changed:<br>        count[num] = count.get(num, 0) + 1<br><br>    sorted_values = sorted(count.keys())<br><br>    original = []<br>    for num in sorted_values:<br>        while count[num]  0 and count.get(num  2, 0)  0:<br>            original.append(num)<br>            count[num] -= 1<br>            count[num  2] -= 1<br>        if count[num]  0:<br>            return []<br><br>    return original
