# Query `117`

## Original Question

*You are given a 2D integer array `rectangles` where `rectangles[i] = [li, hi]` indicates that `ith` rectangle has a length of `li` and a height of `hi`. You are also given a 2D integer array `points` where `points[j] = [xj, yj]` is a point with coordinates `(xj, yj)`.

The `ith` rectangle has its bottom-left corner point at the coordinates `(0, 0)` and its top-right corner point at `(li, hi)`.

Return _an integer array_ `count` _of length_ `points.length` _where_ `count[j]` _is the number of rectangles that contain the_ `jth` _point._

The `ith` rectangle contains the `jth` point if `0 <= xj <= li` and `0 <= yj <= hi`. Note that points that lie on the edges of a rectangle are also considered to be contained by that rectangle.

Example 1:

Input: rectangles = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,5\]\], points = \[\[2,1\],\[1,4\]\]
Output: \[2,1\]
Explanation: 
The first rectangle contains no points.
The second rectangle contains only the point (2, 1).
The third rectangle contains the points (2, 1) and (1, 4).
The number of rectangles that contain the point (2, 1) is 2.
The number of rectangles that contain the point (1, 4) is 1.
Therefore, we return \[2, 1\].

Example 2:

Input: rectangles = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\]\], points = \[\[1,3\],\[1,1\]\]
Output: \[1,3\]
Explanation:
The first rectangle contains only the point (1, 1).
The second rectangle contains only the point (1, 1).
The third rectangle contains the points (1, 3) and (1, 1).
The number of rectangles that contain the point (1, 3) is 1.
The number of rectangles that contain the point (1, 1) is 3.
Therefore, we return \[1, 3\].

Constraints:

   `1 <= rectangles.length, points.length <= 5  104`
   `rectangles[i].length == points[j].length == 2`
   `1 <= li, xj <= 109`
   `1 <= hi, yj <= 100`
   All the `rectangles` are unique.
   All the `points` are unique.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1828.txt
> def countPoints(points, queries):<br>    """You are given an array `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` is the coordinates of the `ith` point on a 2D plane. Multiple points can have the same coordinates.<br><br>You are also given an array `queries` where `queries[j] = [xj, yj, rj]` describes a circle centered at `(xj, yj)` with a radius of `rj`.<br><br>For each query `queries[j]`, compute the number of points inside the `jth` circle. Points on the border of the circle are considered inside.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[j]` _is the answer to the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[3,3\],\[5,3\],\[2,2\]\], queries = \[\[2,3,1\],\[4,3,1\],\[1,1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[3,2,2\]<br>Explanation: The points and circles are shown above.<br>queries\[0\] is the green circle, queries\[1\] is the red circle, and queries\[2\] is the blue circle.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\],\[4,4\],\[5,5\]\], queries = \[\[1,2,2\],\[2,2,2\],\[4,3,2\],\[4,3,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3,2,4\]<br>Explanation: The points and circles are shown above.<br>queries\[0\] is green, queries\[1\] is red, queries\[2\] is blue, and queries\[3\] is purple.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 500`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= x​​​​​​i, y​​​​​​i <= 500`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 500`<br>   `queries[j].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= xj, yj <= 500`<br>   `1 <= rj <= 500`<br>   All coordinates are integers.<br><br>Follow up: Could you find the answer for each query in better complexity than `O(n)`?"""<br><br>    answer = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        inside = 0<br>        for point in points:<br>            dx = point[0] - query[0]<br>            dy = point[1] - query[1]<br>            if dx  dx + dy  dy <= query[2]  query[2]:<br>                inside += 1<br>        answer.append(inside)<br>    return answer

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1499.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given an array `points` containing the coordinates of points on a 2D plane, sorted by the x-values, where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` such that `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`. You are also given an integer `k`.<br><br>Return _the maximum value of the equation_ `yi + yj + |xi - xj|` where `|xi - xj| <= k` and `1 <= i < j <= points.length`.<br><br>It is guaranteed that there exists at least one pair of points that satisfy the constraint `|xi - xj| <= k`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[2,0\],\[5,10\],\[6,-10\]\], k = 1<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The first two points satisfy the condition |xi - xj| <= 1 and if we calculate the equation we get 3 + 0 + |1 - 2| = 4. Third and fourth points also satisfy the condition and give a value of 10 + -10 + |5 - 6| = 1.<br>No other pairs satisfy the condition, so we return the max of 4 and 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[3,0\],\[9,2\]\], k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Only the first two points have an absolute difference of 3 or less in the x-values, and give the value of 0 + 0 + |0 - 3| = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= points.length <= 105`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-108 <= xi, yi <= 108`<br>   `0 <= k <= 2  108`<br>   `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`<br>   `xi` form a strictly increasing sequence."""<br><br><br>def max_performance(n, k, speed, efficiency):<br>    engineers = sorted(zip(efficiency, speed), reverse=True)<br><br>    result = 0<br>    sum_speed = 0<br>    min_heap = []<br>    for e, s in engineers:<br>        if len(min_heap) = k:<br>            sum_speed -= heapq.heappop(min_heap)<br><br>        heapq.heappush(min_heap, s)<br>        sum_speed += s<br>        result = max(result, e  sum_speed)<br><br>    return result % (109 + 7)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_963.txt
> def find_same_binary_value_parts(arr):<br>    """You are given an array of points in the X-Y plane `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum area of any rectangle formed from these points, with sides not necessarily parallel to the X and Y axes_. If there is not any such rectangle, return `0`.<br><br>Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[1,0\],\[0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2.00000<br>Explanation: The minimum area rectangle occurs at \[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[1,0\],\[0,1\], with an area of 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,1\],\[2,1\],\[1,1\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 1.00000<br>Explanation: The minimum area rectangle occurs at \[1,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,0\], with an area of 1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,3\],\[1,2\],\[3,1\],\[1,3\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no possible rectangle to form from these points.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 50`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= 4  104`<br>   All the given points are unique."""<br><br>    ones = sum(arr)<br><br>    if ones % 3 != 0:<br>        return [-1, -1]<br><br>    target = ones // 3<br>    if target == 0:<br>        return [0, len(arr) - 2]<br><br>    count = 0<br>    i = j = -1<br>    ones = 0<br>    for idx, n in enumerate(arr):<br>        if n == 1:<br>            ones += 1<br>            if ones == target + 1:<br>                count += 1<br>            if count == 1 and i == -1:<br>                i = idx<br>            if count == 2 and j == -1:<br>                j = idx<br>            if count == 3:<br>                break<br><br>    return [i, j]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1944.txt
> def truncate_sentence(s, k):<br>    """There are `n` people standing in a queue, and they numbered from `0` to `n - 1` in left to right order. You are given an array `heights` of distinct integers where `heights[i]` represents the height of the `ith` person.<br><br>A person can see another person to their right in the queue if everybody in between is shorter than both of them. More formally, the `ith` person can see the `jth` person if `i < j` and `min(heights[i], heights[j])  max(heights[i+1], heights[i+2], ..., heights[j-1])`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `n` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of people the_ `ith` _person can see to their right in the queue_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: heights = \[10,6,8,5,11,9\]<br>Output: \[3,1,2,1,1,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>Person 0 can see person 1, 2, and 4.<br>Person 1 can see person 2.<br>Person 2 can see person 3 and 4.<br>Person 3 can see person 4.<br>Person 4 can see person 5.<br>Person 5 can see no one since nobody is to the right of them.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: heights = \[5,1,2,3,10\]<br>Output: \[4,1,1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == heights.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= heights[i] <= 105`<br>   All the values of `heights` are unique."""<br><br>    words = s.split(' ')<br>    return ' '.join(words[:k])

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1584.txt
> def average(salary):<br>    """You are given an array `points` representing integer coordinates of some points on a 2D-plane, where `points[i] = [xi, yi]`.<br><br>The cost of connecting two points `[xi, yi]` and `[xj, yj]` is the manhattan distance between them: `|xi - xj| + |yi - yj|`, where `|val|` denotes the absolute value of `val`.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost to make all points connected._ All points are connected if there is exactly one simple path between any two points.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[2,2\],\[3,10\],\[5,2\],\[7,0\]\]<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: <br> <br>We can connect the points as shown above to get the minimum cost of 20.<br>Notice that there is a unique path between every pair of points.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[3,12\],\[-2,5\],\[-4,1\]\]<br>Output: 18<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 1000`<br>   `-106 <= xi, yi <= 106`<br>   All pairs `(xi, yi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    min_salary = min(salary)<br>    max_salary = max(salary)<br>    sum_salaries = sum(salary)<br>    sum_salaries -= (min_salary + max_salary)<br>    return sum_salaries / (len(salary) - 2)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_1828.txt
> def countPoints(points, queries):<br>    """You are given an array `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` is the coordinates of the `ith` point on a 2D plane. Multiple points can have the same coordinates.<br><br>You are also given an array `queries` where `queries[j] = [xj, yj, rj]` describes a circle centered at `(xj, yj)` with a radius of `rj`.<br><br>For each query `queries[j]`, compute the number of points inside the `jth` circle. Points on the border of the circle are considered inside.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[j]` _is the answer to the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[3,3\],\[5,3\],\[2,2\]\], queries = \[\[2,3,1\],\[4,3,1\],\[1,1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[3,2,2\]<br>Explanation: The points and circles are shown above.<br>queries\[0\] is the green circle, queries\[1\] is the red circle, and queries\[2\] is the blue circle.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\],\[4,4\],\[5,5\]\], queries = \[\[1,2,2\],\[2,2,2\],\[4,3,2\],\[4,3,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3,2,4\]<br>Explanation: The points and circles are shown above.<br>queries\[0\] is green, queries\[1\] is red, queries\[2\] is blue, and queries\[3\] is purple.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 500`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= x​​​​​​i, y​​​​​​i <= 500`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 500`<br>   `queries[j].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= xj, yj <= 500`<br>   `1 <= rj <= 500`<br>   All coordinates are integers.<br><br>Follow up: Could you find the answer for each query in better complexity than `O(n)`?"""<br><br>    answer = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        inside = 0<br>        for point in points:<br>            dx = point[0] - query[0]<br>            dy = point[1] - query[1]<br>            if dx  dx + dy  dy <= query[2]  query[2]:<br>                inside += 1<br>        answer.append(inside)<br>    return answer
