# Query `118`

## Original Question

*You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `flowers`, where `flowers[i] = [starti, endi]` means the `ith` flower will be in full bloom from `starti` to `endi` (inclusive). You are also given a 0-indexed integer array `people` of size `n`, where `poeple[i]` is the time that the `ith` person will arrive to see the flowers.

Return _an integer array_ `answer` _of size_ `n`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of flowers that are in full bloom when the_ `ith` _person arrives._

Example 1:

Input: flowers = \[\[1,6\],\[3,7\],\[9,12\],\[4,13\]\], poeple = \[2,3,7,11\]
Output: \[1,2,2,2\]
Explanation: The figure above shows the times when the flowers are in full bloom and when the people arrive.
For each person, we return the number of flowers in full bloom during their arrival.

Example 2:

Input: flowers = \[\[1,10\],\[3,3\]\], poeple = \[3,3,2\]
Output: \[2,2,1\]
Explanation: The figure above shows the times when the flowers are in full bloom and when the people arrive.
For each person, we return the number of flowers in full bloom during their arrival.

Constraints:

   `1 <= flowers.length <= 5  104`
   `flowers[i].length == 2`
   `1 <= starti <= endi <= 109`
   `1 <= people.length <= 5  104`
   `1 <= people[i] <= 109`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0111
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1537
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0111
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2438.txt
> def getPowers(n):<br>    """Given a positive integer `n`, there exists a 0-indexed array called `powers`, composed of the minimum number of powers of `2` that sum to `n`. The array is sorted in non-decreasing order, and there is only one way to form the array.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `queries`, where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]`. Each `queries[i]` represents a query where you have to find the product of all `powers[j]` with `lefti <= j <= righti`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answers`_, equal in length to_ `queries`_, where_ `answers[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_. Since the answer to the `ith` query may be too large, each `answers[i]` should be returned modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 15, queries = \[\[0,1\],\[2,2\],\[0,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,4,64\]<br>Explanation:<br>For n = 15, powers = \[1,2,4,8\]. It can be shown that powers cannot be a smaller size.<br>Answer to 1st query: powers\[0\] \ powers\[1\] = 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>Answer to 2nd query: powers\[2\] = 4.<br>Answer to 3rd query: powers\[0\] \ powers\[1\] \ powers\[2\] \ powers\[3\] = 1 \ 2 \ 4 \ 8 = 64.<br>Each answer modulo 109 + 7 yields the same answer, so \[2,4,64\] is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, queries = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: \[2\]<br>Explanation:<br>For n = 2, powers = \[2\].<br>The answer to the only query is powers\[0\] = 2. The answer modulo 109 + 7 is the same, so \[2\] is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= starti <= endi < powers.length`"""<br><br>    powers = []<br>    while n  0:<br>        powers.append(n & (-n))<br>        n -= n & (-n)<br>    return powers<br><br>def productOfPowers(n, queries):<br>    powers = getPowers(n)<br>    answers = []<br><br>    mod = 109 + 7<br><br>    for query in queries:<br>        product = 1<br>        for i in range(query[0], query[1] + 1):<br>            product = (product  powers[i]) % mod<br>        answers.append(product)<br><br>    return answers

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1944.txt
> def truncate_sentence(s, k):<br>    """There are `n` people standing in a queue, and they numbered from `0` to `n - 1` in left to right order. You are given an array `heights` of distinct integers where `heights[i]` represents the height of the `ith` person.<br><br>A person can see another person to their right in the queue if everybody in between is shorter than both of them. More formally, the `ith` person can see the `jth` person if `i < j` and `min(heights[i], heights[j])  max(heights[i+1], heights[i+2], ..., heights[j-1])`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `n` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of people the_ `ith` _person can see to their right in the queue_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: heights = \[10,6,8,5,11,9\]<br>Output: \[3,1,2,1,1,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>Person 0 can see person 1, 2, and 4.<br>Person 1 can see person 2.<br>Person 2 can see person 3 and 4.<br>Person 3 can see person 4.<br>Person 4 can see person 5.<br>Person 5 can see no one since nobody is to the right of them.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: heights = \[5,1,2,3,10\]<br>Output: \[4,1,1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == heights.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= heights[i] <= 105`<br>   All the values of `heights` are unique."""<br><br>    words = s.split(' ')<br>    return ' '.join(words[:k])

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1482.txt
> def smallerNumbersThanCurrent(nums):<br>    """You are given an integer array `bloomDay`, an integer `m` and an integer `k`.<br><br>You want to make `m` bouquets. To make a bouquet, you need to use `k` adjacent flowers from the garden.<br><br>The garden consists of `n` flowers, the `ith` flower will bloom in the `bloomDay[i]` and then can be used in exactly one bouquet.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of days you need to wait to be able to make_ `m` _bouquets from the garden_. If it is impossible to make m bouquets return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[1,10,3,10,2\], m = 3, k = 1<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Let us see what happened in the first three days. x means flower bloomed and \_ means flower did not bloom in the garden.<br>We need 3 bouquets each should contain 1 flower.<br>After day 1: \[x, \_, \_, \_, \_\]   // we can only make one bouquet.<br>After day 2: \[x, \_, \_, \_, x\]   // we can only make two bouquets.<br>After day 3: \[x, \_, x, \_, x\]   // we can make 3 bouquets. The answer is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[1,10,3,10,2\], m = 3, k = 2<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We need 3 bouquets each has 2 flowers, that means we need 6 flowers. We only have 5 flowers so it is impossible to get the needed bouquets and we return -1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: bloomDay = \[7,7,7,7,12,7,7\], m = 2, k = 3<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: We need 2 bouquets each should have 3 flowers.<br>Here is the garden after the 7 and 12 days:<br>After day 7: \[x, x, x, x, \_, x, x\]<br>We can make one bouquet of the first three flowers that bloomed. We cannot make another bouquet from the last three flowers that bloomed because they are not adjacent.<br>After day 12: \[x, x, x, x, x, x, x\]<br>It is obvious that we can make two bouquets in different ways.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `bloomDay.length == n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= bloomDay[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= m <= 106`<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    result = [0]  len(nums)<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(len(nums)):<br>            if nums[j] < nums[i]:<br>                result[i] += 1<br>    return result

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2136.txt
> def earliestBlooms(plantTime, growTime):<br>    """You have `n` flower seeds. Every seed must be planted first before it can begin to grow, then bloom. Planting a seed takes time and so does the growth of a seed. You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `plantTime` and `growTime`, of length `n` each:<br><br>   `plantTime[i]` is the number of full days it takes you to plant the `ith` seed. Every day, you can work on planting exactly one seed. You do not have to work on planting the same seed on consecutive days, but the planting of a seed is not complete until you have worked `plantTime[i]` days on planting it in total.<br>   `growTime[i]` is the number of full days it takes the `ith` seed to grow after being completely planted. After the last day of its growth, the flower blooms and stays bloomed forever.<br><br>From the beginning of day `0`, you can plant the seeds in any order.<br><br>Return _the earliest possible day where all seeds are blooming_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plantTime = \[1,4,3\], growTime = \[2,3,1\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.<br>One optimal way is:<br>On day 0, plant the 0th seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 3.<br>On days 1, 2, 3, and 4, plant the 1st seed. The seed grows for 3 full days and blooms on day 8.<br>On days 5, 6, and 7, plant the 2nd seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.<br>Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plantTime = \[1,2,3,2\], growTime = \[2,1,2,1\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.<br>One optimal way is:<br>On day 1, plant the 0th seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 4.<br>On days 0 and 3, plant the 1st seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 5.<br>On days 2, 4, and 5, plant the 2nd seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 8.<br>On days 6 and 7, plant the 3rd seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.<br>Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plantTime = \[1\], growTime = \[1\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: On day 0, plant the 0th seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 2.<br>Thus, on day 2, all the seeds are blooming.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plantTime.length == growTime.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= plantTime[i], growTime[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    n = len(plantTime)<br>    processTime = list(zip(plantTime, growTime))<br>    processTime.sort()<br><br>    day = 0<br>    blooms = 0<br>    for p in processTime:<br>        day += p[0]<br>        blooms = max(blooms, day + p[1])<br>    return blooms

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1735.txt
> MOD = 109 + 7<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array, `queries`. For each `queries[i]`, where `queries[i] = [ni, ki]`, find the number of different ways you can place positive integers into an array of size `ni` such that the product of the integers is `ki`. As the number of ways may be too large, the answer to the `ith` query is the number of ways modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer.length == queries.length`_, and_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: queries = \[\[2,6\],\[5,1\],\[73,660\]\]<br>Output: \[4,1,50734910\]<br>Explanation: Each query is independent.<br>\[2,6\]: There are 4 ways to fill an array of size 2 that multiply to 6: \[1,6\], \[2,3\], \[3,2\], \[6,1\].<br>\[5,1\]: There is 1 way to fill an array of size 5 that multiply to 1: \[1,1,1,1,1\].<br>\[73,660\]: There are 1050734917 ways to fill an array of size 73 that multiply to 660. 1050734917 modulo 109 + 7 = 50734910.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: queries = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\],\[4,4\],\[5,5\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3,10,5\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 104`<br>   `1 <= ni, ki <= 104`"""<br><br><br>def mul(a, b):<br>    return (a  b) % MOD<br><br>def ways(n, k, mem):<br>    if n == 1:<br>        return k<br>    if (n_tuple := (n, k)) in mem:<br>        return mem[n_tuple]<br>    if k == 1:<br>        mem[n_tuple] = 1<br>        return 1<br>    if n  k:<br>        mem[n_tuple] = 0<br>        return 0<br>    res = mul(ways(n, k - 1, mem), n)<br>    res = (res - mul(n - 1, ways(n - 1, k - 1, mem)) + MOD) % MOD<br>    mem[n_tuple] = res<br>    return res<br><br>def waysToFillArray(queries):<br>    mem = {}<br>    ans = []<br>    for q in queries:<br>        ans.append(ways(q[0], q[1], mem))<br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 89, leetcode/leetcode_1851.txt
> from bisect import bisect_left<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `intervals`, where `intervals[i] = [lefti, righti]` describes the `ith` interval starting at `lefti` and ending at `righti` (inclusive). The size of an interval is defined as the number of integers it contains, or more formally `righti - lefti + 1`.<br><br>You are also given an integer array `queries`. The answer to the `jth` query is the size of the smallest interval `i` such that `lefti <= queries[j] <= righti`. If no such interval exists, the answer is `-1`.<br><br>Return _an array containing the answers to the queries_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[1,4\],\[2,4\],\[3,6\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: \[3,3,1,4\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- Query = 2: The interval \[2,4\] is the smallest interval containing 2. The answer is 4 - 2 + 1 = 3.<br>- Query = 3: The interval \[2,4\] is the smallest interval containing 3. The answer is 4 - 2 + 1 = 3.<br>- Query = 4: The interval \[4,4\] is the smallest interval containing 4. The answer is 4 - 4 + 1 = 1.<br>- Query = 5: The interval \[3,6\] is the smallest interval containing 5. The answer is 6 - 3 + 1 = 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[2,3\],\[2,5\],\[1,8\],\[20,25\]\], queries = \[2,19,5,22\]<br>Output: \[2,-1,4,6\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- Query = 2: The interval \[2,3\] is the smallest interval containing 2. The answer is 3 - 2 + 1 = 2.<br>- Query = 19: None of the intervals contain 19. The answer is -1.<br>- Query = 5: The interval \[2,5\] is the smallest interval containing 5. The answer is 5 - 2 + 1 = 4.<br>- Query = 22: The interval \[20,25\] is the smallest interval containing 22. The answer is 25 - 20 + 1 = 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= intervals.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `intervals[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= lefti <= righti <= 107`<br>   `1 <= queries[j] <= 107`"""<br><br><br>def maxValue(events, k):<br>    events.sort(key=lambda x: x[1])<br>    n = len(events)<br>    dp = [[0]  (k + 1) for _ in range(n + 1)]<br><br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        start = -1<br>        for j in range(i - 1, 0, -1):<br>            if events[j - 1][1] < events[i - 1][0]:<br>                start = j<br>                break<br><br>        for j in range(1, k + 1):<br>            if start == -1:<br>                dp[i][j] = max(dp[i - 1][j], events[i - 1][2])<br>            else:<br>                dp[i][j] = max(dp[i - 1][j], dp[start][j - 1] + events[i - 1][2])<br><br>    return dp[n][k]
