# Query `121`

## Original Question

*Alice manages a company and has rented some floors of a building as office space. Alice has decided some of these floors should be special floors, used for relaxation only.

You are given two integers `bottom` and `top`, which denote that Alice has rented all the floors from `bottom` to `top` (inclusive). You are also given the integer array `special`, where `special[i]` denotes a special floor that Alice has designated for relaxation.

Return _the maximum number of consecutive floors without a special floor_.

Example 1:

Input: bottom = 2, top = 9, special = \[4,6\]
Output: 3
Explanation: The following are the ranges (inclusive) of consecutive floors without a special floor:
- (2, 3) with a total amount of 2 floors.
- (5, 5) with a total amount of 1 floor.
- (7, 9) with a total amount of 3 floors.
Therefore, we return the maximum number which is 3 floors.

Example 2:

Input: bottom = 6, top = 8, special = \[7,6,8\]
Output: 0
Explanation: Every floor rented is a special floor, so we return 0.

Constraints:

   `1 <= special.length <= 105`
   `1 <= bottom <= special[i] <= top <= 109`
   All the values of `special` are unique.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0833
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1657
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1657
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2727
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0417
map_cut_50: 0.0417
map_cut_100: 0.0609
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2266.txt
> def min_cost(startAt, moveCost, pushCost, targetSeconds):<br>    """Alice is texting Bob using her phone. The mapping of digits to letters is shown in the figure below.<br><br>In order to add a letter, Alice has to press the key of the corresponding digit `i` times, where `i` is the position of the letter in the key.<br><br>   For example, to add the letter `'s'`, Alice has to press `'7'` four times. Similarly, to add the letter `'k'`, Alice has to press `'5'` twice.<br>   Note that the digits `'0'` and `'1'` do not map to any letters, so Alice does not use them.<br><br>However, due to an error in transmission, Bob did not receive Alice's text message but received a string of pressed keys instead.<br><br>   For example, when Alice sent the message `"bob "`, Bob received the string `"2266622 "`.<br><br>Given a string `pressedKeys` representing the string received by Bob, return _the total number of possible text messages Alice could have sent_.<br><br>Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: pressedKeys =  "22233 "<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation:<br>The possible text messages Alice could have sent are:<br> "aaadd ",  "abdd ",  "badd ",  "cdd ",  "aaae ",  "abe ",  "bae ", and  "ce ".<br>Since there are 8 possible messages, we return 8.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: pressedKeys =  "222222222222222222222222222222222222 "<br>Output: 82876089<br>Explanation:<br>There are 2082876103 possible text messages Alice could have sent.<br>Since we need to return the answer modulo 109 + 7, we return 2082876103 % (109 + 7) = 82876089.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= pressedKeys.length <= 105`<br>   `pressedKeys` only consists of digits from `'2'` - `'9'`."""<br><br>    min_cost = float('inf')<br><br>    for i in range(100):<br>        for j in range(100):<br>            if i  60 + j == targetSeconds:<br>                minute_move_cost = abs(i - startAt)  moveCost<br>                second_move_cost = abs(j - i)  moveCost<br>                total_push_cost = (2 if j  0 else 0) + (1 if j // 10 != 0 else 0) + (1 if i // 10 != 0 else 0)<br>                <br>                min_cost = min(min_cost, minute_move_cost + second_move_cost + total_push_cost  pushCost)<br><br>    return min_cost

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2222.txt
> def abbreviated_product(left: int, right: int) - str:<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed binary string `s` which represents the types of buildings along a street where:<br><br>   `s[i] = '0'` denotes that the `ith` building is an office and<br>   `s[i] = '1'` denotes that the `ith` building is a restaurant.<br><br>As a city official, you would like to select 3 buildings for random inspection. However, to ensure variety, no two consecutive buildings out of the selected buildings can be of the same type.<br><br>   For example, given `s = "001101 "`, we cannot select the `1st`, `3rd`, and `5th` buildings as that would form `"011 "` which is not allowed due to having two consecutive buildings of the same type.<br><br>Return _the number of valid ways to select 3 buildings._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "001101 "<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>The following sets of indices selected are valid:<br>- \[0,2,4\] from  "001101 " forms  "010 "<br>- \[0,3,4\] from  "001101 " forms  "010 "<br>- \[1,2,4\] from  "001101 " forms  "010 "<br>- \[1,3,4\] from  "001101 " forms  "010 "<br>- \[2,4,5\] from  "001101 " forms  "101 "<br>- \[3,4,5\] from  "001101 " forms  "101 "<br>No other selection is valid. Thus, there are 6 total ways.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "11100 "<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: It can be shown that there are no valid selections.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= s.length <= 105`<br>   `s[i]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`."""<br><br>    product = 1<br>    for i in range(left, right + 1):<br>        product = i<br>    return str(product)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_375.txt
> def getMoneyAmount(n: int) - int:<br>    """We are playing the Guessing Game. The game will work as follows:<br><br>1.  I pick a number between `1` and `n`.<br>2.  You guess a number.<br>3.  If you guess the right number, you win the game.<br>4.  If you guess the wrong number, then I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower, and you will continue guessing.<br>5.  Every time you guess a wrong number `x`, you will pay `x` dollars. If you run out of money, you lose the game.<br><br>Given a particular `n`, return _the minimum amount of money you need to guarantee a win regardless of what number I pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The winning strategy is as follows:<br>- The range is \[1,10\]. Guess 7.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $7.<br>    - If my number is higher, the range is \[8,10\]. Guess 9.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $9.<br>        - If my number is higher, it must be 10. Guess 10. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>        - If my number is lower, it must be 8. Guess 8. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>    - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,6\]. Guess 3.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $3.<br>        - If my number is higher, the range is \[4,6\]. Guess 5.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $5.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 6. Guess 6. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>            - If my number is lower, it must be 4. Guess 4. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>        - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,2\]. Guess 1.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $7 + $3 + $1 = $11.<br>The worst case in all these scenarios is that you pay $16. Hence, you only need $16 to guarantee a win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is only one possible number, so you can guess 1 and not have to pay anything.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There are two possible numbers, 1 and 2.<br>- Guess 1.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>    - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $1.<br>The worst case is that you pay $1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`"""<br><br>    dp = [[0]  (n + 1) for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    for i in range(n - 1, 0, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n + 1):<br>            min_cost = float("inf")<br>            for k in range(i, j):<br>                cost = k + max(dp[i][k - 1], dp[k + 1][j])<br>                min_cost = min(min_cost, cost)<br>            dp[i][j] = min_cost<br>    return dp[1][n]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2311.txt
> def min_visible_white_tiles(floor, num_carpets, carpet_len):<br>    """You are given a binary string `s` and a positive integer `k`.<br><br>Return _the length of the longest subsequence of_ `s` _that makes up a binary number less than or equal to_ `k`.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   The subsequence can contain leading zeroes.<br>   The empty string is considered to be equal to `0`.<br>   A subsequence is a string that can be derived from another string by deleting some or no characters without changing the order of the remaining characters.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "1001010 ", k = 5<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The longest subsequence of s that makes up a binary number less than or equal to 5 is  "00010 ", as this number is equal to 2 in decimal.<br>Note that  "00100 " and  "00101 " are also possible, which are equal to 4 and 5 in decimal, respectively.<br>The length of this subsequence is 5, so 5 is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "00101001 ", k = 1<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:  "000001 " is the longest subsequence of s that makes up a binary number less than or equal to 1, as this number is equal to 1 in decimal.<br>The length of this subsequence is 6, so 6 is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 1000`<br>   `s[i]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`.<br>   `1 <= k <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(floor)<br>    visible_white_count = floor.count('1')<br><br>    covered_tiles = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if floor[i] == '1':<br>            start = max(0, i - carpet_len + 1)<br>            end = min(n - carpet_len, i)<br>            max_cover = 0<br>            for first_tile in range(start, end + 1):<br>                cover = floor[first_tile:first_tile + carpet_len].count('1')<br>                max_cover = max(max_cover, cover)<br>                          <br>            covered_tiles += max_cover<br>            num_carpets -= 1            <br>            if num_carpets == 0:<br>                break<br><br>    return visible_white_count - covered_tiles

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1579.txt
> class UnionFind:<br>    """Alice and Bob have an undirected graph of `n` nodes and three types of edges:<br><br>   Type 1: Can be traversed by Alice only.<br>   Type 2: Can be traversed by Bob only.<br>   Type 3: Can be traversed by both Alice and Bob.<br><br>Given an array `edges` where `edges[i] = [typei, ui, vi]` represents a bidirectional edge of type `typei` between nodes `ui` and `vi`, find the maximum number of edges you can remove so that after removing the edges, the graph can still be fully traversed by both Alice and Bob. The graph is fully traversed by Alice and Bob if starting from any node, they can reach all other nodes.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of edges you can remove, or return_ `-1` _if Alice and Bob cannot fully traverse the graph._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,1,2\],\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,3\],\[1,2,4\],\[1,1,2\],\[2,3,4\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: If we remove the 2 edges \[1,1,2\] and \[1,1,3\]. The graph will still be fully traversable by Alice and Bob. Removing any additional edge will not make it so. So the maximum number of edges we can remove is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,1,2\],\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,4\],\[2,1,4\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Notice that removing any edge will not make the graph fully traversable by Alice and Bob.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,2\],\[2,3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: In the current graph, Alice cannot reach node 4 from the other nodes. Likewise, Bob cannot reach 1. Therefore it's impossible to make the graph fully traversable.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(105, 3  n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= typei <= 3`<br>   `1 <= ui < vi <= n`<br>   All tuples `(typei, ui, vi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, size):<br>        self.parent = list(range(size))<br>        self.components = size<br><br>    def find(self, x):<br>        if x != self.parent[x]:<br>            self.parent[x] = self.find(self.parent[x])<br>        return self.parent[x]<br><br>    def unite(self, x, y):<br>        root_x, root_y = self.find(x), self.find(y)<br>        if root_x != root_y:<br>            self.parent[root_x] = root_y<br>            self.components -= 1<br>            return True<br>        return False<br><br>def max_num_edges_to_remove(n, edges):<br>    ufA, ufB = UnionFind(n + 1), UnionFind(n + 1)<br>    common_edges = 0<br><br>    for t, u, v in edges:<br>        if t == 3:<br>            if ufA.unite(u, v):<br>                ufB.unite(u, v)<br>                common_edges += 1<br><br>    removed_edges = 0<br>    for t, u, v in edges:<br>        uf = ufA if t == 1 else ufB if t == 2 else None<br>        if uf and not uf.unite(u, v):<br>            removed_edges += 1<br><br>    return -1 if ufA.components != 2 or ufB.components != 2 else removed_edges - common_edges


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 11, leetcode/leetcode_128.txt
> def longest_consecutive(nums):<br>    """Given an unsorted array of integers `nums`, return _the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence._<br><br>You must write an algorithm that runs in `O(n)` time.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[100,4,200,1,3,2\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The longest consecutive elements sequence is `[1, 2, 3, 4]`. Therefore its length is 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,3,7,2,5,8,4,6,0,1\]<br>Output: 9<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    elements = set(nums)<br>    longest_seq = 0<br><br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num - 1 not in elements:<br>            current_num = num<br>            current_seq = 1<br>            <br>            while current_num + 1 in elements:<br>                current_num += 1<br>                current_seq += 1<br><br>            longest_seq = max(longest_seq, current_seq)<br>    <br>    return longest_seq

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 51, leetcode/leetcode_164.txt
> def maximumGap(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the maximum difference between two successive elements in its sorted form_. If the array contains less than two elements, return `0`.<br><br>You must write an algorithm that runs in linear time and uses linear extra space.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,6,9,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The sorted form of the array is \[1,3,6,9\], either (3,6) or (6,9) has the maximum difference 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The array contains less than 2 elements, therefore return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    if len(nums) < 2:<br>        return 0<br><br>    min_val = min(nums)<br>    max_val = max(nums)<br>    length = len(nums)<br>    bucket_size = max(1, (max_val - min_val) // (length - 1))<br>    bucket_num = (max_val - min_val) // bucket_size + 1<br>    buckets = [[float("inf"), float("-inf")] for _ in range(bucket_num)]<br><br>    for num in nums:<br>        idx = (num - min_val) // bucket_size<br>        buckets[idx][0] = min(buckets[idx][0], num)<br>        buckets[idx][1] = max(buckets[idx][1], num)<br><br>    max_gap = 0<br>    prev_max = min_val<br>    for bucket in buckets:<br>        if bucket[0] == float("inf"):<br>            continue<br>        max_gap = max(max_gap, bucket[0] - prev_max)<br>        prev_max = bucket[1]<br>    return max_gap
