# Query `122`

## Original Question

*You are given a 2D integer array `stockPrices` where `stockPrices[i] = [dayi, pricei]` indicates the price of the stock on day `dayi` is `pricei`. A line chart is created from the array by plotting the points on an XY plane with the X-axis representing the day and the Y-axis representing the price and connecting adjacent points. One such example is shown below:

Return _the minimum number of lines needed to represent the line chart_.

Example 1:

Input: stockPrices = \[\[1,7\],\[2,6\],\[3,5\],\[4,4\],\[5,4\],\[6,3\],\[7,2\],\[8,1\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation:
The diagram above represents the input, with the X-axis representing the day and Y-axis representing the price.
The following 3 lines can be drawn to represent the line chart:
- Line 1 (in red) from (1,7) to (4,4) passing through (1,7), (2,6), (3,5), and (4,4).
- Line 2 (in blue) from (4,4) to (5,4).
- Line 3 (in green) from (5,4) to (8,1) passing through (5,4), (6,3), (7,2), and (8,1).
It can be shown that it is not possible to represent the line chart using less than 3 lines.

Example 2:

Input: stockPrices = \[\[3,4\],\[1,2\],\[7,8\],\[2,3\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation:
As shown in the diagram above, the line chart can be represented with a single line.

Constraints:

   `1 <= stockPrices.length <= 105`
   `stockPrices[i].length == 2`
   `1 <= dayi, pricei <= 109`
   All `dayi` are distinct.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0022
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2316.txt
> def count_hills_valleys(nums):<br>    """You are given an integer `n`. There is an undirected graph with `n` nodes, numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>Return _the number of pairs of different nodes that are unreachable from each other_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no pairs of nodes that are unreachable from each other. Therefore, we return 0.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[0,2\],\[0,5\],\[2,4\],\[1,6\],\[5,4\]\]<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: There are 14 pairs of nodes that are unreachable from each other:<br>\[\[0,1\],\[0,3\],\[0,6\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[1,5\],\[2,3\],\[2,6\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\],\[4,6\],\[5,6\]\].<br>Therefore, we return 14.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= 2  105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums) - 1):<br>        if (nums[i]  nums[i - 1] and nums[i]  nums[i + 1]) or (nums[i] < nums[i - 1] and nums[i] < nums[i + 1]):<br>            count += 1<br>    return count

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2070.txt
> from bisect import bisect_right<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `items` where `items[i] = [pricei, beautyi]` denotes the price and beauty of an item respectively.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed integer array `queries`. For each `queries[j]`, you want to determine the maximum beauty of an item whose price is less than or equal to `queries[j]`. If no such item exists, then the answer to this query is `0`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of the same length as_ `queries` _where_ `answer[j]` _is the answer to the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: items = \[\[1,2\],\[3,2\],\[2,4\],\[5,6\],\[3,5\]\], queries = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\]<br>Output: \[2,4,5,5,6,6\]<br>Explanation:<br>- For queries\[0\]=1, \[1,2\] is the only item which has price <= 1. Hence, the answer for this query is 2.<br>- For queries\[1\]=2, the items which can be considered are \[1,2\] and \[2,4\]. <br>  The maximum beauty among them is 4.<br>- For queries\[2\]=3 and queries\[3\]=4, the items which can be considered are \[1,2\], \[3,2\], \[2,4\], and \[3,5\].<br>  The maximum beauty among them is 5.<br>- For queries\[4\]=5 and queries\[5\]=6, all items can be considered.<br>  Hence, the answer for them is the maximum beauty of all items, i.e., 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: items = \[\[1,2\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\]\], queries = \[1\]<br>Output: \[4\]<br>Explanation: <br>The price of every item is equal to 1, so we choose the item with the maximum beauty 4. <br>Note that multiple items can have the same price and/or beauty.  <br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: items = \[\[10,1000\]\], queries = \[5\]<br>Output: \[0\]<br>Explanation:<br>No item has a price less than or equal to 5, so no item can be chosen.<br>Hence, the answer to the query is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= items.length, queries.length <= 105`<br>   `items[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= pricei, beautyi, queries[j] <= 109`"""<br><br><br>def maxPrices(items, queries):<br>    answer = []<br>    sorted_items = [item[0] for item in items]<br>    sorted_items.sort()<br><br>    max_beauty = 0<br>    for i, price in enumerate(sorted_items):<br>        max_beauty = max(max_beauty, items[i][1])<br>        sorted_items[i] = max_beauty<br><br>    for query in queries:<br>        idx = bisect_right(sorted_items, query) - 1<br>        answer.append(sorted_items[idx] if idx = 0 else 0)<br><br>    return answer

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2312.txt
> def max_count_target(nums, key):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` that represent the height and width of a rectangular piece of wood. You are also given a 2D integer array `prices`, where `prices[i] = [hi, wi, pricei]` indicates you can sell a rectangular piece of wood of height `hi` and width `wi` for `pricei` dollars.<br><br>To cut a piece of wood, you must make a vertical or horizontal cut across the entire height or width of the piece to split it into two smaller pieces. After cutting a piece of wood into some number of smaller pieces, you can sell pieces according to `prices`. You may sell multiple pieces of the same shape, and you do not have to sell all the shapes. The grain of the wood makes a difference, so you cannot rotate a piece to swap its height and width.<br><br>Return _the maximum money you can earn after cutting an_ `m x n` _piece of wood_.<br><br>Note that you can cut the piece of wood as many times as you want.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 5, prices = \[\[1,4,2\],\[2,2,7\],\[2,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 19<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 2 pieces of wood shaped 2 x 2, selling for a price of 2 \ 7 = 14.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 2 x 1, selling for a price of 1 \ 3 = 3.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 14 + 3 + 2 = 19 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 19 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, prices = \[\[3,2,10\],\[1,4,2\],\[4,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 32<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 3 pieces of wood shaped 3 x 2, selling for a price of 3 \ 10 = 30.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 30 + 2 = 32 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 32 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br>Notice that we cannot rotate the 1 x 4 piece of wood to obtain a 4 x 1 piece of wood.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 2  104`<br>   `prices[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= hi <= m`<br>   `1 <= wi <= n`<br>   `1 <= pricei <= 106`<br>   All the shapes of wood `(hi, wi)` are pairwise distinct."""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    max_count = 0<br>    max_target = -1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i - 1] == key:<br>            count[nums[i]] = count.get(nums[i], 0) + 1<br>            if count[nums[i]]  max_count:<br>                max_count = count[nums[i]]<br>                max_target = nums[i]<br>    return max_target

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1222.txt
> def remove_covered_intervals(intervals):<br>    """On a 0-indexed `8 x 8` chessboard, there can be multiple black queens ad one white king.<br><br>You are given a 2D integer array `queens` where `queens[i] = [xQueeni, yQueeni]` represents the position of the `ith` black queen on the chessboard. You are also given an integer array `king` of length `2` where `king = [xKing, yKing]` represents the position of the white king.<br><br>Return _the coordinates of the black queens that can directly attack the king_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[4,0\],\[0,4\],\[3,3\],\[2,4\]\], king = \[0,0\]<br>Output: \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[4,4\],\[4,5\]\], king = \[3,3\]<br>Output: \[\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[4,4\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= queens.length < 64`<br>   `queens[i].length == king.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= xQueeni, yQueeni, xKing, yKing < 8`<br>   All the given positions are unique."""<br><br>    intervals.sort(key=lambda x: (x[0], -x[1]))<br>    <br>    count = 0<br>    end = 0<br>    for i in intervals:<br>        if i[1]  end:<br>            count += 1<br>            end = i[1]<br>    return count

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_452.txt
> def findMinArrowShots(points):<br>    """There are some spherical balloons taped onto a flat wall that represents the XY-plane. The balloons are represented as a 2D integer array `points` where `points[i] = [xstart, xend]` denotes a balloon whose horizontal diameter stretches between `xstart` and `xend`. You do not know the exact y-coordinates of the balloons.<br><br>Arrows can be shot up directly vertically (in the positive y-direction) from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with `xstart` and `xend` is burst by an arrow shot at `x` if `xstart <= x <= xend`. There is no limit to the number of arrows that can be shot. A shot arrow keeps traveling up infinitely, bursting any balloons in its path.<br><br>Given the array `points`, return _the minimum number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[10,16\],\[2,8\],\[1,6\],\[7,12\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 6, bursting the balloons \[2,8\] and \[1,6\].<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 11, bursting the balloons \[10,16\] and \[7,12\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\],\[5,6\],\[7,8\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: One arrow needs to be shot for each balloon for a total of 4 arrows.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 2, bursting the balloons \[1,2\] and \[2,3\].<br>- Shoot an arrow at x = 4, bursting the balloons \[3,4\] and \[4,5\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 105`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-231 <= xstart < xend <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    if not points:<br>        return 0<br>    points.sort(key=lambda x: x[1])<br><br>    arrows = 1<br>    end = points[0][1]<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(points)):<br>        if points[i][0]  end:<br>            arrows += 1<br>            end = points[i][1]<br><br>    return arrows


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_149.txt
> from math import gcd<br>    """Given an array of `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` represents a point on the X-Y plane, return _the maximum number of points that lie on the same straight line_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\],\[3,2\],\[5,3\],\[4,1\],\[2,3\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 300`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-104 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   All the `points` are unique."""<br><br>from collections import defaultdict<br><br>def maxPoints(points):<br>    n = len(points)<br>    if n <= 2:<br>        return n<br><br>    max_count = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        slope_map = defaultdict(int)<br>        duplicates = 0<br>        local_max = 0<br><br>        for j in range(i+1, n):<br>            deltaX = points[j][0] - points[i][0]<br>            deltaY = points[j][1] - points[i][1]<br><br>            if deltaX == 0 and deltaY == 0:<br>                duplicates += 1<br>                continue<br><br>            g = gcd(deltaX, deltaY)<br>            deltaX = deltaX // g<br>            deltaY = deltaY // g<br><br>            key = f"{deltaX}_{deltaY}"<br>            slope_map[key] += 1<br>            local_max = max(local_max, slope_map[key])<br><br>        max_count = max(max_count, local_max + duplicates + 1)<br><br>    return max_count
