# Query `125`

## Original Question

*You are given an integer `n`. You roll a fair 6-sided dice `n` times. Determine the total number of distinct sequences of rolls possible such that the following conditions are satisfied:

1.  The greatest common divisor of any adjacent values in the sequence is equal to `1`.
2.  There is at least a gap of `2` rolls between equal valued rolls. More formally, if the value of the `ith` roll is equal to the value of the `jth` roll, then `abs(i - j) > 2`.

Return _the total number of distinct sequences possible_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.

Two sequences are considered distinct if at least one element is different.

Example 1:

Input: n = 4
Output: 184
Explanation: Some of the possible sequences are (1, 2, 3, 4), (6, 1, 2, 3), (1, 2, 3, 1), etc.
Some invalid sequences are (1, 2, 1, 3), (1, 2, 3, 6).
(1, 2, 1, 3) is invalid since the first and third roll have an equal value and abs(1 - 3) = 2 (i and j are 1-indexed).
(1, 2, 3, 6) is invalid since the greatest common divisor of 3 and 6 = 3.
There are a total of 184 distinct sequences possible, so we return 184.

Example 2:

Input: n = 2
Output: 22
Explanation: Some of the possible sequences are (1, 2), (2, 1), (3, 2).
Some invalid sequences are (3, 6), (2, 4) since the greatest common divisor is not equal to 1.
There are a total of 22 distinct sequences possible, so we return 22.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 104`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6131
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1223.txt
> def areConnected(n, threshold, queries):<br>    """A die simulator generates a random number from `1` to `6` for each roll. You introduced a constraint to the generator such that it cannot roll the number `i` more than `rollMax[i]` (1-indexed) consecutive times.<br><br>Given an array of integers `rollMax` and an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct sequences that can be obtained with exact_ `n` _rolls_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two sequences are considered different if at least one element differs from each other.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,2,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 34<br>Explanation: There will be 2 rolls of die, if there are no constraints on the die, there are 6 \ 6 = 36 possible combinations. In this case, looking at rollMax array, the numbers 1 and 2 appear at most once consecutively, therefore sequences (1,1) and (2,2) cannot occur, so the final answer is 36-2 = 34.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,1,1,1,1\]<br>Output: 30<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, rollMax = \[1,1,1,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 181<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`<br>   `rollMax.length == 6`<br>   `1 <= rollMax[i] <= 15`"""<br><br>    answer = [False]  len(queries)<br>    parent = list(range(n + 1))<br>    rank = [0]  (n + 1)<br><br>    def find(x):<br>        if parent[x] != x:<br>            parent[x] = find(parent[x])<br>        return parent[x]<br><br>    def unite(x, y):<br>        rootx = find(x)<br>        rooty = find(y)<br>        if rootx != rooty:<br>            if rank[rootx]  rank[rooty]:<br>                rootx, rooty = rooty, rootx<br>            parent[rootx] = rooty<br>            if rank[rootx] == rank[rooty]:<br>                rank[rooty] += 1<br><br>    for i in range(threshold + 1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i  2, n + 1, i):<br>            unite(i, j)<br><br>    for i, query in enumerate(queries):<br>        answer[i] = find(query[0]) == find(query[1])<br><br>    return answer

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1808.txt
> def stoneGame(stones):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `primeFactors`. You are asked to construct a positive integer `n` that satisfies the following conditions:<br><br>   The number of prime factors of `n` (not necessarily distinct) is at most `primeFactors`.<br>   The number of nice divisors of `n` is maximized. Note that a divisor of `n` is nice if it is divisible by every prime factor of `n`. For example, if `n = 12`, then its prime factors are `[2,2,3]`, then `6` and `12` are nice divisors, while `3` and `4` are not.<br><br>Return _the number of nice divisors of_ `n`. Since that number can be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that a prime number is a natural number greater than `1` that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. The prime factors of a number `n` is a list of prime numbers such that their product equals `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: primeFactors = 5<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: 200 is a valid value of n.<br>It has 5 prime factors: \[2,2,2,5,5\], and it has 6 nice divisors: \[10,20,40,50,100,200\].<br>There is not other value of n that has at most 5 prime factors and more nice divisors.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: primeFactors = 8<br>Output: 18<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= primeFactors <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    <br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            dp[i][j] = max(stones[j] - dp[i][j - 1], stones[i] - dp[i + 1][j])<br>    <br>    return dp[0][n - 1]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1889.txt
> def check_powers_of_three(n: int) - bool:<br>    """You have `n` packages that you are trying to place in boxes, one package in each box. There are `m` suppliers that each produce boxes of different sizes (with infinite supply). A package can be placed in a box if the size of the package is less than or equal to the size of the box.<br><br>The package sizes are given as an integer array `packages`, where `packages[i]` is the size of the `ith` package. The suppliers are given as a 2D integer array `boxes`, where `boxes[j]` is an array of box sizes that the `jth` supplier produces.<br><br>You want to choose a single supplier and use boxes from them such that the total wasted space is minimized. For each package in a box, we define the space wasted to be `size of the box - size of the package`. The total wasted space is the sum of the space wasted in all the boxes.<br><br>   For example, if you have to fit packages with sizes `[2,3,5]` and the supplier offers boxes of sizes `[4,8]`, you can fit the packages of size-`2` and size-`3` into two boxes of size-`4` and the package with size-`5` into a box of size-`8`. This would result in a waste of `(4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total wasted space by choosing the box supplier optimally, or_ `-1` _if it is impossible to fit all the packages inside boxes._ Since the answer may be large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[4,8\],\[2,8\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the first supplier, using two size-4 boxes and one size-8 box.<br>The total waste is (4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is no box that the package of size 5 can fit in.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: packages = \[3,5,8,10,11,12\], boxes = \[\[12\],\[11,9\],\[10,5,14\]\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the third supplier, using two size-5 boxes, two size-10 boxes, and two size-14 boxes.<br>The total waste is (5-3) + (5-5) + (10-8) + (10-10) + (14-11) + (14-12) = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == packages.length`<br>   `m == boxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m <= 105`<br>   `1 <= packages[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j].length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j][k] <= 105`<br>   `sum(boxes[j].length) <= 105`<br>   The elements in `boxes[j]` are distinct."""<br><br>    while n  0:<br>        if n % 3 == 2:<br>            return False<br>        n //= 3<br>    return True

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2447.txt
> def gcd(a, b):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the number of subarrays of_ `nums` _where the greatest common divisor of the subarray's elements is_ `k`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array.<br><br>The greatest common divisor of an array is the largest integer that evenly divides all the array elements.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[9,3,1,2,6,3\], k = 3<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The subarrays of nums where 3 is the greatest common divisor of all the subarray's elements are:<br>- \[9,3,1,2,6,3\]<br>- \[9,3,1,2,6,3\]<br>- \[9,3,1,2,6,3\]<br>- \[9,3,1,2,6,3\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4\], k = 7<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no subarrays of nums where 7 is the greatest common divisor of all the subarray's elements.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i], k <= 109`"""<br><br>    if b == 0:<br>        return a<br>    return gcd(b, a % b)<br><br>def count_GCD_subarrays(nums, k):<br>    count = 0<br><br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        gcd_so_far = 0<br>        for j in range(i, len(nums)):<br>            gcd_so_far = gcd(gcd_so_far, nums[j])<br>            if gcd_so_far == k:<br>                count += 1<br><br>    return count

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1627.txt
> def lastMoment(n, left, right):<br>    """We have `n` cities labeled from `1` to `n`. Two different cities with labels `x` and `y` are directly connected by a bidirectional road if and only if `x` and `y` share a common divisor strictly greater than some `threshold`. More formally, cities with labels `x` and `y` have a road between them if there exists an integer `z` such that all of the following are true:<br><br>   `x % z == 0`,<br>   `y % z == 0`, and<br>   `z  threshold`.<br><br>Given the two integers, `n` and `threshold`, and an array of `queries`, you must determine for each `queries[i] = [ai, bi]` if cities `ai` and `bi` are connected directly or indirectly. (i.e. there is some path between them).<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer.length == queries.length` _and_ `answer[i]` _is_ `true` _if for the_ `ith` _query, there is a path between_ `ai` _and_ `bi`_, or_ `answer[i]` _is_ `false` _if there is no path._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, threshold = 2, queries = \[\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[3,6\]\]<br>Output: \[false,false,true\]<br>Explanation: The divisors for each number:<br>1:   1<br>2:   1, 2<br>3:   1, 3<br>4:   1, 2, 4<br>5:   1, 5<br>6:   1, 2, 3, 6<br>Using the underlined divisors above the threshold, only cities 3 and 6 share a common divisor, so they are the<br>only ones directly connected. The result of each query:<br>\[1,4\]   1 is not connected to 4<br>\[2,5\]   2 is not connected to 5<br>\[3,6\]   3 is connected to 6 through path 3--6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 6, threshold = 0, queries = \[\[4,5\],\[3,4\],\[3,2\],\[2,6\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: \[true,true,true,true,true\]<br>Explanation: The divisors for each number are the same as the previous example. However, since the threshold is 0,<br>all divisors can be used. Since all numbers share 1 as a divisor, all cities are connected.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 5, threshold = 1, queries = \[\[4,5\],\[4,5\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[false,false,false,false,false\]<br>Explanation: Only cities 2 and 4 share a common divisor 2 which is strictly greater than the threshold 1, so they are the only ones directly connected.<br>Please notice that there can be multiple queries for the same pair of nodes \[x, y\], and that the query \[x, y\] is equivalent to the query \[y, x\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 104`<br>   `0 <= threshold <= n`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= cities`<br>   `ai != bi`"""<br><br>    max_left = max(left, default=0)<br>    min_right = min(right, default=n)<br><br>    return max(max_left, n - min_right)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_1223.txt
> def areConnected(n, threshold, queries):<br>    """A die simulator generates a random number from `1` to `6` for each roll. You introduced a constraint to the generator such that it cannot roll the number `i` more than `rollMax[i]` (1-indexed) consecutive times.<br><br>Given an array of integers `rollMax` and an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct sequences that can be obtained with exact_ `n` _rolls_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two sequences are considered different if at least one element differs from each other.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,2,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 34<br>Explanation: There will be 2 rolls of die, if there are no constraints on the die, there are 6 \ 6 = 36 possible combinations. In this case, looking at rollMax array, the numbers 1 and 2 appear at most once consecutively, therefore sequences (1,1) and (2,2) cannot occur, so the final answer is 36-2 = 34.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,1,1,1,1\]<br>Output: 30<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, rollMax = \[1,1,1,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 181<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`<br>   `rollMax.length == 6`<br>   `1 <= rollMax[i] <= 15`"""<br><br>    answer = [False]  len(queries)<br>    parent = list(range(n + 1))<br>    rank = [0]  (n + 1)<br><br>    def find(x):<br>        if parent[x] != x:<br>            parent[x] = find(parent[x])<br>        return parent[x]<br><br>    def unite(x, y):<br>        rootx = find(x)<br>        rooty = find(y)<br>        if rootx != rooty:<br>            if rank[rootx]  rank[rooty]:<br>                rootx, rooty = rooty, rootx<br>            parent[rootx] = rooty<br>            if rank[rootx] == rank[rooty]:<br>                rank[rooty] += 1<br><br>    for i in range(threshold + 1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i  2, n + 1, i):<br>            unite(i, j)<br><br>    for i, query in enumerate(queries):<br>        answer[i] = find(query[0]) == find(query[1])<br><br>    return answer

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1473.txt
> def findTheLongestSubstring(s: str) - int:<br>    """There is a row of `m` houses in a small city, each house must be painted with one of the `n` colors (labeled from `1` to `n`), some houses that have been painted last summer should not be painted again.<br><br>A neighborhood is a maximal group of continuous houses that are painted with the same color.<br><br>   For example: `houses = [1,2,2,3,3,2,1,1]` contains `5` neighborhoods `[{1}, {2,2}, {3,3}, {2}, {1,1}]`.<br><br>Given an array `houses`, an `m x n` matrix `cost` and an integer `target` where:<br><br>   `houses[i]`: is the color of the house `i`, and `0` if the house is not painted yet.<br>   `cost[i][j]`: is the cost of paint the house `i` with the color `j + 1`.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost of painting all the remaining houses in such a way that there are exactly_ `target` _neighborhoods_. If it is not possible, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: houses = \[0,0,0,0,0\], cost = \[\[1,10\],\[10,1\],\[10,1\],\[1,10\],\[5,1\]\], m = 5, n = 2, target = 3<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: Paint houses of this way \[1,2,2,1,1\]<br>This array contains target = 3 neighborhoods, \[{1}, {2,2}, {1,1}\].<br>Cost of paint all houses (1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 5) = 9.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: houses = \[0,2,1,2,0\], cost = \[\[1,10\],\[10,1\],\[10,1\],\[1,10\],\[5,1\]\], m = 5, n = 2, target = 3<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation: Some houses are already painted, Paint the houses of this way \[2,2,1,2,2\]<br>This array contains target = 3 neighborhoods, \[{2,2}, {1}, {2,2}\]. <br>Cost of paint the first and last house (10 + 1) = 11.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: houses = \[3,1,2,3\], cost = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\]\], m = 4, n = 3, target = 3<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: Houses are already painted with a total of 4 neighborhoods \[{3},{1},{2},{3}\] different of target = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == houses.length == cost.length`<br>   `n == cost[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 100`<br>   `1 <= n <= 20`<br>   `1 <= target <= m`<br>   `0 <= houses[i] <= n`<br>   `1 <= cost[i][j] <= 104`"""<br><br>    pos = {-1: 0}<br>    ans = cur = 0<br>    for i, c in enumerate(s):<br>        cur ^= 1 << ("aeiou".find(c) + 1)  1<br>        if cur not in pos:<br>            pos[cur] = i + 1<br>        ans = max(ans, i + 1 - pos[cur])<br>    return ans
