# Query `126`

## Original Question

*You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid`, where you can move from a cell to any adjacent cell in all `4` directions.

Return _the number of strictly increasing paths in the grid such that you can start from any cell and end at any cell._ Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.

Two paths are considered different if they do not have exactly the same sequence of visited cells.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[1,1\],\[3,4\]\]
Output: 8
Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:
- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[1\], \[3\], \[4\].
- Paths with length 2: \[1 -> 3\], \[1 -> 4\], \[3 -> 4\].
- Paths with length 3: \[1 -> 3 -> 4\].
The total number of paths is 4 + 3 + 1 = 8.

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[1\],\[2\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:
- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[2\].
- Paths with length 2: \[1 -> 2\].
The total number of paths is 2 + 1 = 3.

Constraints:

   `m == grid.length`
   `n == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 1000`
   `1 <= m  n <= 105`
   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0122
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0962
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0061
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2503.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid` and an array `queries` of size `k`.<br><br>Find an array `answer` of size `k` such that for each integer `queries[i]` you start in the top left cell of the matrix and repeat the following process:<br><br>   If `queries[i]` is strictly greater than the value of the current cell that you are in, then you get one point if it is your first time visiting this cell, and you can move to any adjacent cell in all `4` directions: up, down, left, and right.<br>   Otherwise, you do not get any points, and you end this process.<br><br>After the process, `answer[i]` is the maximum number of points you can get. Note that for each query you are allowed to visit the same cell multiple times.<br><br>Return _the resulting array_ `answer`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,2,3\],\[2,5,7\],\[3,5,1\]\], queries = \[5,6,2\]<br>Output: \[5,8,1\]<br>Explanation: The diagrams above show which cells we visit to get points for each query.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[5,2,1\],\[1,1,2\]\], queries = \[3\]<br>Output: \[0\]<br>Explanation: We can not get any points because the value of the top left cell is already greater than or equal to 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `2 <= m, n <= 1000`<br>   `4 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `k == queries.length`<br>   `1 <= k <= 104`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j], queries[i] <= 106`"""<br><br><br>def maxPoints(grid: List[List[int]], queries: List[int]) - List[int]:<br>    m, n = len(grid), len(grid[0])<br>    dx = [-1, 0, 1, 0]<br>    dy = [0, 1, 0, -1]<br><br>    def dfs(x: int, y: int, q: int, visited: set) - int:<br>        if 0 <= x < m and 0 <= y < n and grid[x][y] < q and (x, y) not in visited:<br>            visited.add((x, y))<br>            points = 1<br>            for i in range(4):<br>                nx, ny = x + dx[i], y + dy[i]<br>                points += dfs(nx, ny, q, visited)<br>            return points<br>        return 0<br><br>    return [dfs(0, 0, query, set()) for query in queries]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2245.txt
> def can_destroy_all_asteroids(mass, asteroids):<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n`, where each cell contains a positive integer.<br><br>A cornered path is defined as a set of adjacent cells with at most one turn. More specifically, the path should exclusively move either horizontally or vertically up to the turn (if there is one), without returning to a previously visited cell. After the turn, the path will then move exclusively in the alternate direction: move vertically if it moved horizontally, and vice versa, also without returning to a previously visited cell.<br><br>The product of a path is defined as the product of all the values in the path.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path found in_ `grid`.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   Horizontal movement means moving in either the left or right direction.<br>   Vertical movement means moving in either the up or down direction.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[23,17,15,3,20\],\[8,1,20,27,11\],\[9,4,6,2,21\],\[40,9,1,10,6\],\[22,7,4,5,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The grid on the left shows a valid cornered path.<br>It has a product of 15 \ 20 \ 6 \ 1 \ 10 = 18000 which has 3 trailing zeros.<br>It can be shown that this is the maximum trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path.<br><br>The grid in the middle is not a cornered path as it has more than one turn.<br>The grid on the right is not a cornered path as it requires a return to a previously visited cell.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[4,3,2\],\[7,6,1\],\[8,8,8\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The grid is shown in the figure above.<br>There are no cornered paths in the grid that result in a product with a trailing zero.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    asteroids.sort()<br>    for asteroid in asteroids:<br>        if mass = asteroid:<br>            mass += asteroid<br>        else:<br>            return False<br>    return True

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1411.txt
> class ListNode:<br>    """You have a `grid` of size `n x 3` and you want to paint each cell of the grid with exactly one of the three colors: Red, Yellow, or Green while making sure that no two adjacent cells have the same color (i.e., no two cells that share vertical or horizontal sides have the same color).<br><br>Given `n` the number of rows of the grid, return _the number of ways_ you can paint this `grid`. As the answer may grow large, the answer must be computed modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: There are 12 possible way to paint the grid as shown.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5000<br>Output: 30228214<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == grid.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`"""<br><br>    def __init__(self, val=0, next=None):<br>        self.val = val<br>        self.next = next<br><br>def getDecimalValue(head: ListNode) - int:<br>    num = 0<br>    while head:<br>        num = (num << 1) | head.val<br>        head = head.next<br>    return num

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1931.txt
> def numOfWays(m, n):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n`. Consider an `m x n` grid where each cell is initially white. You can paint each cell red, green, or blue. All cells must be painted.<br><br>Return _the number of ways to color the grid with no two adjacent cells having the same color_. Since the answer can be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 1, n = 1<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The three possible colorings are shown in the image above.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 1, n = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The six possible colorings are shown in the image above.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: m = 5, n = 5<br>Output: 580986<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m <= 5`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`"""<br><br>    mod = 1000000007<br>    a, b, c, d = 6, 6, 3, 3<br>    while n  1:<br>        n -= 1<br>        temp_a = a<br>        temp_c = c<br>        a = (a  3 + b  2) % mod<br>        b = (temp_a  2 + b  2) % mod<br>        c = (c  3 + d  2) % mod<br>        d = (temp_c  2 + d  2) % mod<br>    return b if m == 1 else (a + c) % mod

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1889.txt
> def check_powers_of_three(n: int) - bool:<br>    """You have `n` packages that you are trying to place in boxes, one package in each box. There are `m` suppliers that each produce boxes of different sizes (with infinite supply). A package can be placed in a box if the size of the package is less than or equal to the size of the box.<br><br>The package sizes are given as an integer array `packages`, where `packages[i]` is the size of the `ith` package. The suppliers are given as a 2D integer array `boxes`, where `boxes[j]` is an array of box sizes that the `jth` supplier produces.<br><br>You want to choose a single supplier and use boxes from them such that the total wasted space is minimized. For each package in a box, we define the space wasted to be `size of the box - size of the package`. The total wasted space is the sum of the space wasted in all the boxes.<br><br>   For example, if you have to fit packages with sizes `[2,3,5]` and the supplier offers boxes of sizes `[4,8]`, you can fit the packages of size-`2` and size-`3` into two boxes of size-`4` and the package with size-`5` into a box of size-`8`. This would result in a waste of `(4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total wasted space by choosing the box supplier optimally, or_ `-1` _if it is impossible to fit all the packages inside boxes._ Since the answer may be large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[4,8\],\[2,8\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the first supplier, using two size-4 boxes and one size-8 box.<br>The total waste is (4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is no box that the package of size 5 can fit in.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: packages = \[3,5,8,10,11,12\], boxes = \[\[12\],\[11,9\],\[10,5,14\]\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the third supplier, using two size-5 boxes, two size-10 boxes, and two size-14 boxes.<br>The total waste is (5-3) + (5-5) + (10-8) + (10-10) + (14-11) + (14-12) = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == packages.length`<br>   `m == boxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m <= 105`<br>   `1 <= packages[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j].length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j][k] <= 105`<br>   `sum(boxes[j].length) <= 105`<br>   The elements in `boxes[j]` are distinct."""<br><br>    while n  0:<br>        if n % 3 == 2:<br>            return False<br>        n //= 3<br>    return True


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 81, leetcode/leetcode_329.txt
> dx = (0, 0, 1, -1)<br>    """Given an `m x n` integers `matrix`, return _the length of the longest increasing path in_ `matrix`.<br><br>From each cell, you can either move in four directions: left, right, up, or down. You may not move diagonally or move outside the boundary (i.e., wrap-around is not allowed).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[9,9,4\],\[6,6,8\],\[2,1,1\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The longest increasing path is `[1, 2, 6, 9]`.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[3,4,5\],\[3,2,6\],\[2,2,1\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The longest increasing path is `[3, 4, 5, 6]`. Moving diagonally is not allowed.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == matrix.length`<br>   `n == matrix[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `0 <= matrix[i][j] <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>dy = (1, -1, 0, 0)<br><br>def dfs(matrix, memo, i, j):<br>    if memo[i][j] != 0:<br>        return memo[i][j]<br>    <br>    max_len = 0<br>    for k in range(4):<br>        ni, nj = i + dx[k], j + dy[k]<br>        if (0 <= ni < len(matrix) and 0 <= nj < len(matrix[0]) and matrix[ni][nj]  matrix[i][j]):<br>            max_len = max(max_len, dfs(matrix, memo, ni, nj))<br>    <br>    memo[i][j] = max_len + 1<br>    return memo[i][j]<br><br>def longest_increasing_path(matrix):<br>    m, n = len(matrix), len(matrix[0])<br>    <br>    memo = [[0]  n for _ in range(m)]<br>    <br>    ans = 0<br>    for i in range(m):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            ans = max(ans, dfs(matrix, memo, i, j))<br>    <br>    return ans

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_797.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """Given a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`, find all possible paths from node `0` to node `n - 1` and return them in any order.<br><br>The graph is given as follows: `graph[i]` is a list of all nodes you can visit from node `i` (i.e., there is a directed edge from node `i` to node `graph[i][j]`).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,2\],\[3\],\[3\],\[\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,1,3\],\[0,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation: There are two paths: 0 - 1 - 3 and 0 - 2 - 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[4,3,1\],\[3,2,4\],\[3\],\[4\],\[\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,4\],\[0,3,4\],\[0,1,3,4\],\[0,1,2,3,4\],\[0,1,4\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == graph.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 15`<br>   `0 <= graph[i][j] < n`<br>   `graph[i][j] != i` (i.e., there will be no self-loops).<br>   All the elements of `graph[i]` are unique.<br>   The input graph is guaranteed to be a DAG."""<br><br>def numRabbits(answers):<br>    count = defaultdict(int)<br>    res = 0<br>    for a in answers:<br>        count[a] += 1<br>        if count[a] == 1:<br>            res += (a + 1)<br>        elif count[a]  a + 1:<br>            count[a] = 1<br>            res += (a + 1)<br>    return res
