# Query `128`

## Original Question

*You are given a 2D integer array `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [lefti, righti]` represents the inclusive interval `[lefti, righti]`.

You have to divide the intervals into one or more groups such that each interval is in exactly one group, and no two intervals that are in the same group intersect each other.

Return _the minimum number of groups you need to make_.

Two intervals intersect if there is at least one common number between them. For example, the intervals `[1, 5]` and `[5, 8]` intersect.

Example 1:

Input: intervals = \[\[5,10\],\[6,8\],\[1,5\],\[2,3\],\[1,10\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation: We can divide the intervals into the following groups:
- Group 1: \[1, 5\], \[6, 8\].
- Group 2: \[2, 3\], \[5, 10\].
- Group 3: \[1, 10\].
It can be proven that it is not possible to divide the intervals into fewer than 3 groups.

Example 2:

Input: intervals = \[\[1,3\],\[5,6\],\[8,10\],\[11,13\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation: None of the intervals overlap, so we can put all of them in one group.

Constraints:

   `1 <= intervals.length <= 105`
   `intervals[i].length == 2`
   `1 <= lefti <= righti <= 106`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1250
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1934
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1934
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0625
map_cut_25: 0.0625
map_cut_50: 0.0625
map_cut_100: 0.0625
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2055.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is a long table with a line of plates and candles arranged on top of it. You are given a 0-indexed string `s` consisting of characters `''` and `'|'` only, where a `''` represents a plate and a `'|'` represents a candle.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `queries` where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]` denotes the substring `s[lefti...righti]` (inclusive). For each query, you need to find the number of plates between candles that are in the substring. A plate is considered between candles if there is at least one candle to its left and at least one candle to its right in the substring.<br><br>   For example, `s = "||||| "`, and a query `[3, 8]` denotes the substring `"||| "`. The number of plates between candles in this substring is `2`, as each of the two plates has at least one candle in the substring to its left and right.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\|\\|\\\| ", queries = \[\[2,5\],\[5,9\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has two plates between candles.<br>- queries\[1\] has three plates between candles.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\\|\\|\\\\\|\\||\\|\ ", queries = \[\[1,17\],\[4,5\],\[14,17\],\[5,11\],\[15,16\]\]<br>Output: \[9,0,0,0,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has nine plates between candles.<br>- The other queries have zero plates between candles.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= s.length <= 105`<br>   `s` consists of `''` and `'|'` characters.<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= lefti <= righti < s.length`"""<br><br><br>def splitPainting(segments):<br>    changes = defaultdict(int)<br>    for start, end, color in segments:<br>        changes[start] += color<br>        changes[end] -= color<br><br>    result = []<br>    start, color_sum = 0, 0<br>    for key in sorted(changes.keys()):<br>        if start != key:<br>            if color_sum:<br>                result.append([start, key, color_sum])<br>            start = key<br>        color_sum += changes[key]<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1310.txt
> def water_plants(plants, capacity):<br>    """You are given an array `arr` of positive integers. You are also given the array `queries` where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]`.<br><br>For each query `i` compute the XOR of elements from `lefti` to `righti` (that is, `arr[lefti] XOR arr[lefti + 1] XOR ... XOR arr[righti]` ).<br><br>Return an array `answer` where `answer[i]` is the answer to the `ith` query.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,3,4,8\], queries = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[0,3\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,7,14,8\] <br>Explanation: <br>The binary representation of the elements in the array are:<br>1 = 0001 <br>3 = 0011 <br>4 = 0100 <br>8 = 1000 <br>The XOR values for queries are:<br>\[0,1\] = 1 xor 3 = 2 <br>\[1,2\] = 3 xor 4 = 7 <br>\[0,3\] = 1 xor 3 xor 4 xor 8 = 14 <br>\[3,3\] = 8<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[4,8,2,10\], queries = \[\[2,3\],\[1,3\],\[0,0\],\[0,3\]\]<br>Output: \[8,0,4,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length, queries.length <= 3  104`<br>   `1 <= arr[i] <= 109`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= lefti <= righti < arr.length`"""<br><br>    steps = 0<br>    water_left = 0<br><br>    for i, plant in enumerate(plants):<br>        if water_left < plant:<br>            steps += 2  i + 1  # Refill the watering can<br>            water_left = capacity<br>        water_left -= plant<br>        steps += 1  # Move to the next plant<br><br>    return steps

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2392.txt
> def build_matrix(k: int, row_conditions: List[List[int]], col_conditions: List[List[int]]) - List[List[int]]:<br>    """You are given a positive integer `k`. You are also given:<br><br>   a 2D integer array `rowConditions` of size `n` where `rowConditions[i] = [abovei, belowi]`, and<br>   a 2D integer array `colConditions` of size `m` where `colConditions[i] = [lefti, righti]`.<br><br>The two arrays contain integers from `1` to `k`.<br><br>You have to build a `k x k` matrix that contains each of the numbers from `1` to `k` exactly once. The remaining cells should have the value `0`.<br><br>The matrix should also satisfy the following conditions:<br><br>   The number `abovei` should appear in a row that is strictly above the row at which the number `belowi` appears for all `i` from `0` to `n - 1`.<br>   The number `lefti` should appear in a column that is strictly left of the column at which the number `righti` appears for all `i` from `0` to `m - 1`.<br><br>Return _any matrix that satisfies the conditions_. If no answer exists, return an empty matrix.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: k = 3, rowConditions = \[\[1,2\],\[3,2\]\], colConditions = \[\[2,1\],\[3,2\]\]<br>Output: \[\[3,0,0\],\[0,0,1\],\[0,2,0\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a valid example of a matrix that satisfies all the conditions.<br>The row conditions are the following:<br>- Number 1 is in row 1, and number 2 is in row 2, so 1 is above 2 in the matrix.<br>- Number 3 is in row 0, and number 2 is in row 2, so 3 is above 2 in the matrix.<br>The column conditions are the following:<br>- Number 2 is in column 1, and number 1 is in column 2, so 2 is left of 1 in the matrix.<br>- Number 3 is in column 0, and number 2 is in column 1, so 3 is left of 2 in the matrix.<br>Note that there may be multiple correct answers.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: k = 3, rowConditions = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,1\],\[2,3\]\], colConditions = \[\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation: From the first two conditions, 3 has to be below 1 but the third conditions needs 3 to be above 1 to be satisfied.<br>No matrix can satisfy all the conditions, so we return the empty matrix.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= k <= 400`<br>   `1 <= rowConditions.length, colConditions.length <= 104`<br>   `rowConditions[i].length == colConditions[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= abovei, belowi, lefti, righti <= k`<br>   `abovei != belowi`<br>   `lefti != righti`"""<br><br>    row, col = [0]  (k + 1), [0]  (k + 1)<br>    for condition in row_conditions:<br>        if row[condition[0]] = row[condition[1]]:<br>            return []<br>        row[condition[1]] = row[condition[0]] + 1<br>    for condition in col_conditions:<br>        if col[condition[0]] = col[condition[1]]:<br>            return []<br>        col[condition[1]] = col[condition[0]] + 1<br>    matrix = [[0]  k for _ in range(k)]<br>    for i in range(1, k + 1):<br>        matrix[row[i]][col[i]] = i<br>    return matrix

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2564.txt
> from math import log2<br>    """You are given a binary string `s`, and a 2D integer array `queries` where `queries[i] = [firsti, secondi]`.<br><br>For the `ith` query, find the shortest substring of `s` whose decimal value, `val`, yields `secondi` when bitwise XORed with `firsti`. In other words, `val ^ firsti == secondi`.<br><br>The answer to the `ith` query is the endpoints (0-indexed) of the substring `[lefti, righti]` or `[-1, -1]` if no such substring exists. If there are multiple answers, choose the one with the minimum `lefti`.<br><br>_Return an array_ `ans` _where_ `ans[i] = [lefti, righti]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>A substring is a contiguous non-empty sequence of characters within a string.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "101101 ", queries = \[\[0,5\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Explanation: For the first query the substring in range `[0,2]` is  "101 " which has a decimal value of `5`, and `5 ^ 0 = 5`, hence the answer to the first query is `[0,2]`. In the second query, the substring in range `[2,3]` is  "11 ", and has a decimal value of 3, and 3 `^ 1 = 2`. So, `[2,3]` is returned for the second query. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "0101 ", queries = \[\[12,8\]\]<br>Output: \[\[-1,-1\]\]<br>Explanation: In this example there is no substring that answers the query, hence `[-1,-1] is returned`.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "1 ", queries = \[\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Explanation: For this example, the substring in range `[0,0]` has a decimal value of `1`, and `1 ^ 4 = 5`. So, the answer is `[0,0]`.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 104`<br>   `s[i]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`.<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= firsti, secondi <= 109`"""<br><br>def shortestSubstringQueries(s, queries):<br>    n = len(s)<br>    dp = {}<br>    val = 0<br>    mask = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        mask |= 1 << int(s[i])<br>        val = (val << 1) | int(s[i])<br><br>        for j in range(10):<br>            if i + 1 - (1 << j) = 0:<br>                newVal = val & ((1 << (j + 1)) - 1)<br>                if newVal not in dp:<br>                    dp[newVal] = i + 1 - (1 << j)<br><br>    ans = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        target = query[0] ^ query[1]<br>        if target in dp:<br>            ans.append([dp[target], dp[target] + int(log2(target))])<br>        else:<br>            ans.append([-1, -1])<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1024.txt
> def count_and_triples(nums):<br>    """You are given a series of video clips from a sporting event that lasted `time` seconds. These video clips can be overlapping with each other and have varying lengths.<br><br>Each video clip is described by an array `clips` where `clips[i] = [starti, endi]` indicates that the ith clip started at `starti` and ended at `endi`.<br><br>We can cut these clips into segments freely.<br><br>   For example, a clip `[0, 7]` can be cut into segments `[0, 1] + [1, 3] + [3, 7]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of clips needed so that we can cut the clips into segments that cover the entire sporting event_ `[0, time]`. If the task is impossible, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: clips = \[\[0,2\],\[4,6\],\[8,10\],\[1,9\],\[1,5\],\[5,9\]\], time = 10<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We take the clips \[0,2\], \[8,10\], \[1,9\]; a total of 3 clips.<br>Then, we can reconstruct the sporting event as follows:<br>We cut \[1,9\] into segments \[1,2\] + \[2,8\] + \[8,9\].<br>Now we have segments \[0,2\] + \[2,8\] + \[8,10\] which cover the sporting event \[0, 10\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: clips = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\]\], time = 5<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We cannot cover \[0,5\] with only \[0,1\] and \[1,2\].<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: clips = \[\[0,1\],\[6,8\],\[0,2\],\[5,6\],\[0,4\],\[0,3\],\[6,7\],\[1,3\],\[4,7\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[2,6\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\],\[5,7\],\[6,9\]\], time = 9<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can take clips \[0,4\], \[4,7\], and \[6,9\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= clips.length <= 100`<br>   `0 <= starti <= endi <= 100`<br>   `1 <= time <= 100`<br><br>0 <= i < j < k < nums.length, and nums\[i\] & nums\[j\] & nums\[k\] != 0. (\`&\` represents the bitwise AND operation.)"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, len(nums)):<br>            for k in range(j + 1, len(nums)):<br>                if nums[i] & nums[j] & nums[k] != 0:<br>                    count += 1<br>    return count


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 7, leetcode/leetcode_56.txt
> def merge(intervals):<br>    """Given an array of `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [starti, endi]`, merge all overlapping intervals, and return _an array of the non-overlapping intervals that cover all the intervals in the input_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[1,3\],\[2,6\],\[8,10\],\[15,18\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,6\],\[8,10\],\[15,18\]\]<br>Explanation: Since intervals \[1,3\] and \[2,6\] overlap, merge them into \[1,6\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[1,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,5\]\]<br>Explanation: Intervals \[1,4\] and \[4,5\] are considered overlapping.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= intervals.length <= 104`<br>   `intervals[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= starti <= endi <= 104`"""<br><br>    if not intervals:<br>        return []<br><br>    intervals.sort()<br>    result = [intervals[0]]<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(intervals)):<br>        if result[-1][1] = intervals[i][0]:<br>            result[-1][1] = max(result[-1][1], intervals[i][1])<br>        else:<br>            result.append(intervals[i])<br><br>    return result

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1419.txt
> def minNumberOfFrogs(croakOfFrogs: str) - int:<br>    """You are given the string `croakOfFrogs`, which represents a combination of the string `"croak "` from different frogs, that is, multiple frogs can croak at the same time, so multiple `"croak "` are mixed.<br><br>_Return the minimum number of_ different _frogs to finish all the croaks in the given string._<br><br>A valid `"croak "` means a frog is printing five letters `'c'`, `'r'`, `'o'`, `'a'`, and `'k'` sequentially. The frogs have to print all five letters to finish a croak. If the given string is not a combination of a valid `"croak "` return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: croakOfFrogs =  "croakcroak "<br>Output: 1 <br>Explanation: One frog yelling  "croak " twice.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: croakOfFrogs =  "crcoakroak "<br>Output: 2 <br>Explanation: The minimum number of frogs is two. <br>The first frog could yell  "crcoakroak ".<br>The second frog could yell later  "crcoakroak ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: croakOfFrogs =  "croakcrook "<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: The given string is an invalid combination of  "croak " from different frogs.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= croakOfFrogs.length <= 105`<br>   `croakOfFrogs` is either `'c'`, `'r'`, `'o'`, `'a'`, or `'k'`."""<br><br>    counter = [0]  5<br>    frogs = max_frogs = 0<br>    for ch in croakOfFrogs:<br>        idx = 'croak'.index(ch)<br>        counter[idx] += 1<br>        if idx == 0:<br>            max_frogs = max(max_frogs, frogs + 1)<br>            frogs += 1<br>        else:<br>            counter[idx - 1] -= 1<br>            if counter[idx - 1] < 0:<br>                return -1<br>            if idx == 4:<br>                frogs -= 1<br>    return max_frogs if all(count == counter[0] for count in counter) else -1
