# Query `131`

## Original Question

*Given two positive integers `a` and `b`, return _the number of common factors of_ `a` _and_ `b`.

An integer `x` is a common factor of `a` and `b` if `x` divides both `a` and `b`.

Example 1:

Input: a = 12, b = 6
Output: 4
Explanation: The common factors of 12 and 6 are 1, 2, 3, 6.

Example 2:

Input: a = 25, b = 30
Output: 2
Explanation: The common factors of 25 and 30 are 1, 5.

Constraints:

   `1 <= a, b <= 1000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0019
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1808.txt
> def stoneGame(stones):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `primeFactors`. You are asked to construct a positive integer `n` that satisfies the following conditions:<br><br>   The number of prime factors of `n` (not necessarily distinct) is at most `primeFactors`.<br>   The number of nice divisors of `n` is maximized. Note that a divisor of `n` is nice if it is divisible by every prime factor of `n`. For example, if `n = 12`, then its prime factors are `[2,2,3]`, then `6` and `12` are nice divisors, while `3` and `4` are not.<br><br>Return _the number of nice divisors of_ `n`. Since that number can be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that a prime number is a natural number greater than `1` that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. The prime factors of a number `n` is a list of prime numbers such that their product equals `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: primeFactors = 5<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: 200 is a valid value of n.<br>It has 5 prime factors: \[2,2,2,5,5\], and it has 6 nice divisors: \[10,20,40,50,100,200\].<br>There is not other value of n that has at most 5 prime factors and more nice divisors.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: primeFactors = 8<br>Output: 18<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= primeFactors <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    <br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            dp[i][j] = max(stones[j] - dp[i][j - 1], stones[i] - dp[i + 1][j])<br>    <br>    return dp[0][n - 1]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2154.txt
> def min_moves_to_convert(s):<br>    """You are given an array of integers `nums`. You are also given an integer `original` which is the first number that needs to be searched for in `nums`.<br><br>You then do the following steps:<br><br>1.  If `original` is found in `nums`, multiply it by two (i.e., set `original = 2  original`).<br>2.  Otherwise, stop the process.<br>3.  Repeat this process with the new number as long as you keep finding the number.<br><br>Return _the final value of_ `original`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,3,6,1,12\], original = 3<br>Output: 24<br>Explanation: <br>- 3 is found in nums. 3 is multiplied by 2 to obtain 6.<br>- 6 is found in nums. 6 is multiplied by 2 to obtain 12.<br>- 12 is found in nums. 12 is multiplied by 2 to obtain 24.<br>- 24 is not found in nums. Thus, 24 is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,7,9\], original = 4<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation:<br>- 4 is not found in nums. Thus, 4 is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i], original <= 1000`"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    i = 0<br>    while i < len(s) - 2:<br>        if s[i] == "X" and s[i + 1] == "X" and s[i + 2] == "X":<br>            count += 1<br>            i += 3<br>        else:<br>            i += 1<br>    return count

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2535.txt
> def difference_between_element_and_digit_sum(nums):<br>    """You are given a positive integer array `nums`.<br><br>   The element sum is the sum of all the elements in `nums`.<br>   The digit sum is the sum of all the digits (not necessarily distinct) that appear in `nums`.<br><br>Return _the absolute difference between the element sum and digit sum of_ `nums`.<br><br>Note that the absolute difference between two integers `x` and `y` is defined as `|x - y|`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,15,6,3\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The element sum of nums is 1 + 15 + 6 + 3 = 25.<br>The digit sum of nums is 1 + 1 + 5 + 6 + 3 = 16.<br>The absolute difference between the element sum and digit sum is |25 - 16| = 9.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>The element sum of nums is 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10.<br>The digit sum of nums is 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10.<br>The absolute difference between the element sum and digit sum is |10 - 10| = 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 2000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 2000`"""<br><br>    element_sum = sum(nums)<br>    digit_sum = sum(sum(int(digit) for digit in str(num)) for num in nums)<br>    return abs(element_sum - digit_sum)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1006.txt
> def spellchecker(wordlist, queries):<br>    """The factorial of a positive integer `n` is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to `n`.<br><br>   For example, `factorial(10) = 10  9  8  7  6  5  4  3  2  1`.<br><br>We make a clumsy factorial using the integers in decreasing order by swapping out the multiply operations for a fixed rotation of operations with multiply `''`, divide `'/'`, add `'+'`, and subtract `'-'` in this order.<br><br>   For example, `clumsy(10) = 10  9 / 8 + 7 - 6  5 / 4 + 3 - 2  1`.<br><br>However, these operations are still applied using the usual order of operations of arithmetic. We do all multiplication and division steps before any addition or subtraction steps, and multiplication and division steps are processed left to right.<br><br>Additionally, the division that we use is floor division such that `10  9 / 8 = 90 / 8 = 11`.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _the clumsy factorial of_ `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: 7 = 4 \ 3 / 2 + 1<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: 12 = 10 \ 9 / 8 + 7 - 6 \ 5 / 4 + 3 - 2 \ 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 104`"""<br><br>    word_map = {word: word for word in wordlist}<br>    word_map_lower_case = {word.lower(): word for word in wordlist if word.lower() not in word_map_lower_case}<br>    word_map_vowel_replaced = {replace_vowels(word.lower()): word for word in wordlist if replace_vowels(word.lower()) not in word_map_vowel_replaced}<br><br>    result = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        lower_query = query.lower()<br>        vowel_replaced_query = replace_vowels(lower_query)<br><br>        if query in word_map:<br>            result.append(word_map[query])<br>        elif lower_query in word_map_lower_case:<br>            result.append(word_map_lower_case[lower_query])<br>        elif vowel_replaced_query in word_map_vowel_replaced:<br>            result.append(word_map_vowel_replaced[vowel_replaced_query])<br>        else:<br>            result.append("")<br><br>    return result<br><br><br>def replace_vowels(word):<br>    return ''.join(['#' if ch in 'aeiou' else ch for ch in word])

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2160.txt
> def min_operations(grid, x):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `num` consisting of exactly four digits. Split `num` into two new integers `new1` and `new2` by using the digits found in `num`. Leading zeros are allowed in `new1` and `new2`, and all the digits found in `num` must be used.<br><br>   For example, given `num = 2932`, you have the following digits: two `2`'s, one `9` and one `3`. Some of the possible pairs `[new1, new2]` are `[22, 93]`, `[23, 92]`, `[223, 9]` and `[2, 329]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible sum of_ `new1` _and_ `new2`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 2932<br>Output: 52<br>Explanation: Some possible pairs \[new1, new2\] are \[29, 23\], \[223, 9\], etc.<br>The minimum sum can be obtained by the pair \[29, 23\]: 29 + 23 = 52.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 4009<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation: Some possible pairs \[new1, new2\] are \[0, 49\], \[490, 0\], etc. <br>The minimum sum can be obtained by the pair \[4, 9\]: 4 + 9 = 13.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1000 <= num <= 9999`"""<br><br>    min_element = min(min(row) for row in grid)<br>    min_ops = float('inf')<br><br>    base = min_element<br>    while True:<br>        operations = 0<br>        impossible = False<br>        for row in grid:<br>            if impossible:<br>                break<br>            for cell in row:<br>                diff = abs(cell - base)<br>                if diff % x != 0:<br>                    impossible = True<br>                    break<br>                operations += diff // x<br>        if impossible:<br>            break<br>        min_ops = min(min_ops, operations)<br>        base -= 1<br><br>    return -1 if min_ops == float('inf') else min_ops


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_204.txt
> def countPrimes(n: int) - int:<br>    """Given an integer `n`, return _the number of prime numbers that are strictly less than_ `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: There are 4 prime numbers less than 10, they are 2, 3, 5, 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 0<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 5  106`"""<br><br>    if n <= 2:<br>        return 0<br>    is_prime = [True]  n<br>    is_prime[0] = is_prime[1] = False<br>    for i in range(2, int(n0.5) + 1):<br>        if is_prime[i]:<br>            for j in range(i  i, n, i):<br>                is_prime[j] = False<br>    return sum(is_prime)
