# Query `136`

## Original Question

*You are given a 0-indexed integer array `forts` of length `n` representing the positions of several forts. `forts[i]` can be `-1`, `0`, or `1` where:

   `-1` represents there is no fort at the `ith` position.
   `0` indicates there is an enemy fort at the `ith` position.
   `1` indicates the fort at the `ith` the position is under your command.

Now you have decided to move your army from one of your forts at position `i` to an empty position `j` such that:

   `0 <= i, j <= n - 1`
   The army travels over enemy forts only. Formally, for all `k` where `min(i,j) < k < max(i,j)`, `forts[k] == 0.`

While moving the army, all the enemy forts that come in the way are captured.

Return _the maximum number of enemy forts that can be captured_. In case it is impossible to move your army, or you do not have any fort under your command, return `0`_._

Example 1:

Input: forts = \[1,0,0,-1,0,0,0,0,1\]
Output: 4
Explanation:
- Moving the army from position 0 to position 3 captures 2 enemy forts, at 1 and 2.
- Moving the army from position 8 to position 3 captures 4 enemy forts.
Since 4 is the maximum number of enemy forts that can be captured, we return 4.

Example 2:

Input: forts = \[0,0,1,-1\]
Output: 0
Explanation: Since no enemy fort can be captured, 0 is returned.

Constraints:

   `1 <= forts.length <= 1000`
   `-1 <= forts[i] <= 1`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0048
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2379.txt
> def min_operations(blocks, k):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed string `blocks` of length `n`, where `blocks[i]` is either `'W'` or `'B'`, representing the color of the `ith` block. The characters `'W'` and `'B'` denote the colors white and black, respectively.<br><br>You are also given an integer `k`, which is the desired number of consecutive black blocks.<br><br>In one operation, you can recolor a white block such that it becomes a black block.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations needed such that there is at least one occurrence of_ `k` _consecutive black blocks._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: blocks =  "WBBWWBBWBW ", k = 7<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>One way to achieve 7 consecutive black blocks is to recolor the 0th, 3rd, and 4th blocks<br>so that blocks =  "BBBBBBBWBW ". <br>It can be shown that there is no way to achieve 7 consecutive black blocks in less than 3 operations.<br>Therefore, we return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: blocks =  "WBWBBBW ", k = 2<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>No changes need to be made, since 2 consecutive black blocks already exist.<br>Therefore, we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == blocks.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `blocks[i]` is either `'W'` or `'B'`.<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    n = len(blocks)<br>    res = k<br>    w = b = 0<br>    i = j = 0<br><br>    while j < n:<br>        if blocks[j] == 'W':<br>            w += 1<br>        while b  k or (b == k and blocks[i] == 'B'):<br>            if blocks[i] == 'W':<br>                w -= 1<br>                i += 1<br>            else:<br>                b -= 1<br>                i += 1<br>        if b == k:<br>            res = min(res, w)<br>        else:<br>            b += 1<br>        j += 1<br>    <br>    return res

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2320.txt
> def k_distant_indices(nums, key, k):<br>    """There is a street with `n  2` plots, where there are `n` plots on each side of the street. The plots on each side are numbered from `1` to `n`. On each plot, a house can be placed.<br><br>Return _the number of ways houses can be placed such that no two houses are adjacent to each other on the same side of the street_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that if a house is placed on the `ith` plot on one side of the street, a house can also be placed on the `ith` plot on the other side of the street.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: <br>Possible arrangements:<br>1. All plots are empty.<br>2. A house is placed on one side of the street.<br>3. A house is placed on the other side of the street.<br>4. Two houses are placed, one on each side of the street.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: The 9 possible arrangements are shown in the diagram above.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 104`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(max(0, i - k), min(i + k + 1, len(nums))):<br>            if nums[j] == key:<br>                result.append(i)<br>                break<br>    return result

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2209.txt
> def minVisibleWhiteTiles(floor: str, numCarpets: int, carpetLen: int) - int:<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed binary string `floor`, which represents the colors of tiles on a floor:<br><br>   `floor[i] = '0'` denotes that the `ith` tile of the floor is colored black.<br>   On the other hand, `floor[i] = '1'` denotes that the `ith` tile of the floor is colored white.<br><br>You are also given `numCarpets` and `carpetLen`. You have `numCarpets` black carpets, each of length `carpetLen` tiles. Cover the tiles with the given carpets such that the number of white tiles still visible is minimum. Carpets may overlap one another.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of white tiles still visible._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: floor =  "10110101 ", numCarpets = 2, carpetLen = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: <br>The figure above shows one way of covering the tiles with the carpets such that only 2 white tiles are visible.<br>No other way of covering the tiles with the carpets can leave less than 2 white tiles visible.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: floor =  "11111 ", numCarpets = 2, carpetLen = 3<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: <br>The figure above shows one way of covering the tiles with the carpets such that no white tiles are visible.<br>Note that the carpets are able to overlap one another.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= carpetLen <= floor.length <= 1000`<br>   `floor[i]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`.<br>   `1 <= numCarpets <= 1000`"""<br><br>    n, res = len(floor), len(floor)<br>    for i in range(n - carpetLen + 1):<br>        count = sum(1 for j in range(carpetLen) if floor[i + j] == '1')<br>        for k in range(1, numCarpets + 1):<br>            if k  carpetLen - 1 <= i + carpetLen:<br>                res = min(res, n - count  k)<br>                if i + carpetLen < n:<br>                    count -= floor[i + carpetLen - k  carpetLen] == '1'<br>                    count += floor[i + carpetLen] == '1'<br>    return res

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2120.txt
> def findNoOfInstructions(n: int, startPos: List[int], s: str) - List[int]:<br>    """There is an `n x n` grid, with the top-left cell at `(0, 0)` and the bottom-right cell at `(n - 1, n - 1)`. You are given the integer `n` and an integer array `startPos` where `startPos = [startrow, startcol]` indicates that a robot is initially at cell `(startrow, startcol)`.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed string `s` of length `m` where `s[i]` is the `ith` instruction for the robot: `'L'` (move left), `'R'` (move right), `'U'` (move up), and `'D'` (move down).<br><br>The robot can begin executing from any `ith` instruction in `s`. It executes the instructions one by one towards the end of `s` but it stops if either of these conditions is met:<br><br>   The next instruction will move the robot off the grid.<br>   There are no more instructions left to execute.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `m` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of instructions the robot can execute if the robot begins executing from the_ `ith` _instruction in_ `s`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, startPos = \[0,1\], s =  "RRDDLU "<br>Output: \[1,5,4,3,1,0\]<br>Explanation: Starting from startPos and beginning execution from the ith instruction:<br>- 0th:  "RRDDLU ". Only one instruction  "R " can be executed before it moves off the grid.<br>- 1st:   "RDDLU ". All five instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (1, 1).<br>- 2nd:    "DDLU ". All four instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (1, 0).<br>- 3rd:     "DLU ". All three instructions can be executed while it stays in the grid and ends at (0, 0).<br>- 4th:      "LU ". Only one instruction  "L " can be executed before it moves off the grid.<br>- 5th:       "U ". If moving up, it would move off the grid.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, startPos = \[1,1\], s =  "LURD "<br>Output: \[4,1,0,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>- 0th:  "LURD ".<br>- 1st:   "URD ".<br>- 2nd:    "RD ".<br>- 3rd:     "D ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1, startPos = \[0,0\], s =  "LRUD "<br>Output: \[0,0,0,0\]<br>Explanation: No matter which instruction the robot begins execution from, it would move off the grid.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == s.length`<br>   `1 <= n, m <= 500`<br>   `startPos.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startrow, startcol < n`<br>   `s` consists of `'L'`, `'R'`, `'U'`, and `'D'`."""<br><br>    answer = [0]  len(s)<br>    x, y = startPos<br><br>    for i in range(len(s)):<br>        cnt = 0<br>        cx, cy = x, y<br>        for j in range(i, len(s)):<br>            step = s[j]<br>            if step == 'L':<br>                if cy == 0: break<br>                cy -= 1<br>            elif step == 'R':<br>                if cy == n - 1: break<br>                cy += 1<br>            elif step == 'U':<br>                if cx == 0: break<br>                cx -= 1<br>            else:<br>                if cx == n - 1: break<br>                cx += 1<br>            cnt += 1<br>            if j == len(s) - 1: break<br>        answer[i] = cnt<br><br>    return answer

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_547.txt
> def findCircleNum(isConnected):<br>    """There are `n` cities. Some of them are connected, while some are not. If city `a` is connected directly with city `b`, and city `b` is connected directly with city `c`, then city `a` is connected indirectly with city `c`.<br><br>A province is a group of directly or indirectly connected cities and no other cities outside of the group.<br><br>You are given an `n x n` matrix `isConnected` where `isConnected[i][j] = 1` if the `ith` city and the `jth` city are directly connected, and `isConnected[i][j] = 0` otherwise.<br><br>Return _the total number of provinces_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: isConnected = \[\[1,1,0\],\[1,1,0\],\[0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: isConnected = \[\[1,0,0\],\[0,1,0\],\[0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`<br>   `n == isConnected.length`<br>   `n == isConnected[i].length`<br>   `isConnected[i][j]` is `1` or `0`.<br>   `isConnected[i][i] == 1`<br>   `isConnected[i][j] == isConnected[j][i]`"""<br><br>    def dfs(isConnected, visited, i):<br>        visited[i] = True<br>        for j in range(len(isConnected)):<br>            if isConnected[i][j] == 1 and not visited[j]:<br>                dfs(isConnected, visited, j)<br><br>    provinces = 0<br>    visited = [False]  len(isConnected)<br>    for i in range(len(isConnected)):<br>        if not visited[i]:<br>            dfs(isConnected, visited, i)<br>            provinces += 1<br>    return provinces


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_485.txt
> def findMaxConsecutiveOnes(nums):<br>    """Given a binary array `nums`, return _the maximum number of consecutive_ `1`_'s in the array_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,0,1,1,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The first two digits or the last three digits are consecutive 1s. The maximum number of consecutive 1s is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,0,1,1,0,1\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `nums[i]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    max_consecutive, current_consecutive = 0, 0<br>    for num in nums:<br>        current_consecutive = current_consecutive + 1 if num == 1 else 0<br>        max_consecutive = max(max_consecutive, current_consecutive)<br>    return max_consecutive

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1004.txt
> def least_ops_express_target(x, target):<br>    """Given a binary array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the maximum number of consecutive_ `1`_'s in the array if you can flip at most_ `k` `0`'s.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1,0\], k = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: \[1,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1\]<br>Bolded numbers were flipped from 0 to 1. The longest subarray is underlined.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,0,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1\], k = 3<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: \[0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1\]<br>Bolded numbers were flipped from 0 to 1. The longest subarray is underlined.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `nums[i]` is either `0` or `1`.<br>   `0 <= k <= nums.length`"""<br><br>    if x == target:<br>        return 0<br>    if target == 1:<br>        return 1<br>    if x  target:<br>        return min(2  target - 1, 2  (x - target))<br><br>    k = 0<br>    p = x<br>    while p < target:<br>        k += 1<br>        p = x<br><br>    ans = float('inf')<br>    d = 1<br><br>    for i in range(k - 1, -1, -1):<br>        while p = target + d  (1 - x):<br>            p -= d<br>            ans = min(ans, i + int(math.log2(target // d) + 1) + int(d == 1 and -1 or 0))<br>        d = d  x + 1<br><br>    return ans
