# Query `138`

## Original Question

*There is a regular convex polygon with `n` vertices. The vertices are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` in a clockwise direction, and each vertex has exactly one monkey. The following figure shows a convex polygon of `6` vertices.

Each monkey moves simultaneously to a neighboring vertex. A neighboring vertex for a vertex `i` can be:

   the vertex `(i + 1) % n` in the clockwise direction, or
   the vertex `(i - 1 + n) % n` in the counter-clockwise direction.

A collision happens if at least two monkeys reside on the same vertex after the movement or intersect on an edge.

Return _the number of ways the monkeys can move so that at least one collision_ _happens_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.

Note that each monkey can only move once.

Example 1:

Input: n = 3
Output: 6
Explanation: There are 8 total possible movements.
Two ways such that they collide at some point are:
- Monkey 1 moves in a clockwise direction; monkey 2 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 3 moves in a clockwise direction. Monkeys 1 and 2 collide.
- Monkey 1 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 2 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 3 moves in a clockwise direction. Monkeys 1 and 3 collide.
It can be shown 6 total movements result in a collision.

Example 2:

Input: n = 4
Output: 14
Explanation: It can be shown that there are 14 ways for the monkeys to collide.

Constraints:

   `3 <= n <= 109`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2211.txt
> def k_radius_average(nums, k):<br>    """There are `n` cars on an infinitely long road. The cars are numbered from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right and each car is present at a unique point.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed string `directions` of length `n`. `directions[i]` can be either `'L'`, `'R'`, or `'S'` denoting whether the `ith` car is moving towards the left, towards the right, or staying at its current point respectively. Each moving car has the same speed.<br><br>The number of collisions can be calculated as follows:<br><br>   When two cars moving in opposite directions collide with each other, the number of collisions increases by `2`.<br>   When a moving car collides with a stationary car, the number of collisions increases by `1`.<br><br>After a collision, the cars involved can no longer move and will stay at the point where they collided. Other than that, cars cannot change their state or direction of motion.<br><br>Return _the total number of collisions that will happen on the road_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: directions =  "RLRSLL "<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>The collisions that will happen on the road are:<br>- Cars 0 and 1 will collide with each other. Since they are moving in opposite directions, the number of collisions becomes 0 + 2 = 2.<br>- Cars 2 and 3 will collide with each other. Since car 3 is stationary, the number of collisions becomes 2 + 1 = 3.<br>- Cars 3 and 4 will collide with each other. Since car 3 is stationary, the number of collisions becomes 3 + 1 = 4.<br>- Cars 4 and 5 will collide with each other. After car 4 collides with car 3, it will stay at the point of collision and get hit by car 5. The number of collisions becomes 4 + 1 = 5.<br>Thus, the total number of collisions that will happen on the road is 5. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: directions =  "LLRR "<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>No cars will collide with each other. Thus, the total number of collisions that will happen on the road is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= directions.length <= 105`<br>   `directions[i]` is either `'L'`, `'R'`, or `'S'`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    avgs = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(k, n - k):<br>        sum = 0<br>        for j in range(i - k, i + k + 1):<br>            sum += nums[j]<br>        avgs[i] = sum // (2  k + 1)<br>    return avgs

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1039.txt
> def find_judge(n, trust):<br>    """You have a convex `n`\-sided polygon where each vertex has an integer value. You are given an integer array `values` where `values[i]` is the value of the `ith` vertex (i.e., clockwise order).<br><br>You will triangulate the polygon into `n - 2` triangles. For each triangle, the value of that triangle is the product of the values of its vertices, and the total score of the triangulation is the sum of these values over all `n - 2` triangles in the triangulation.<br><br>Return _the smallest possible total score that you can achieve with some triangulation of the polygon_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The polygon is already triangulated, and the score of the only triangle is 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: values = \[3,7,4,5\]<br>Output: 144<br>Explanation: There are two triangulations, with possible scores: 3\7\5 + 4\5\7 = 245, or 3\4\5 + 3\4\7 = 144.<br>The minimum score is 144.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,3,1,4,1,5\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation: The minimum score triangulation has score 1\1\3 + 1\1\4 + 1\1\5 + 1\1\1 = 13.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == values.length`<br>   `3 <= n <= 50`<br>   `1 <= values[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    trustCounts = [0]  (n + 1)<br>    for a, b in trust:<br>        trustCounts[a] -= 1<br>        trustCounts[b] += 1<br><br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        if trustCounts[i] == n - 1:<br>            return i<br>    return -1

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_935.txt
> def lex_smallest_string(s, k):<br>    """The chess knight has a unique movement, it may move two squares vertically and one square horizontally, or two squares horizontally and one square vertically (with both forming the shape of an L). The possible movements of chess knight are shown in this diagaram:<br><br>A chess knight can move as indicated in the chess diagram below:<br><br>We have a chess knight and a phone pad as shown below, the knight can only stand on a numeric cell (i.e. blue cell).<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return how many distinct phone numbers of length `n` we can dial.<br><br>You are allowed to place the knight on any numeric cell initially and then you should perform `n - 1` jumps to dial a number of length `n`. All jumps should be valid knight jumps.<br><br>As the answer may be very large, return the answer modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: We need to dial a number of length 1, so placing the knight over any numeric cell of the 10 cells is sufficient.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: All the valid number we can dial are \[04, 06, 16, 18, 27, 29, 34, 38, 40, 43, 49, 60, 61, 67, 72, 76, 81, 83, 92, 94\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3131<br>Output: 136006598<br>Explanation: Please take care of the mod.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`"""<br><br>    res = s<br>    for i in range(k):<br>        tmp = s[i:] + s[:i]<br>        if tmp < res:<br>            res = tmp<br>    return res

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2463.txt
> def min_total_distance(robot: List[int], factory: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    """There are some robots and factories on the X-axis. You are given an integer array `robot` where `robot[i]` is the position of the `ith` robot. You are also given a 2D integer array `factory` where `factory[j] = [positionj, limitj]` indicates that `positionj` is the position of the `jth` factory and that the `jth` factory can repair at most `limitj` robots.<br><br>The positions of each robot are unique. The positions of each factory are also unique. Note that a robot can be in the same position as a factory initially.<br><br>All the robots are initially broken; they keep moving in one direction. The direction could be the negative or the positive direction of the X-axis. When a robot reaches a factory that did not reach its limit, the factory repairs the robot, and it stops moving.<br><br>At any moment, you can set the initial direction of moving for some robot. Your target is to minimize the total distance traveled by all the robots.<br><br>Return _the minimum total distance traveled by all the robots_. The test cases are generated such that all the robots can be repaired.<br><br>Note that<br><br>   All robots move at the same speed.<br>   If two robots move in the same direction, they will never collide.<br>   If two robots move in opposite directions and they meet at some point, they do not collide. They cross each other.<br>   If a robot passes by a factory that reached its limits, it crosses it as if it does not exist.<br>   If the robot moved from a position `x` to a position `y`, the distance it moved is `|y - x|`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: robot = \[0,4,6\], factory = \[\[2,2\],\[6,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: As shown in the figure:<br>- The first robot at position 0 moves in the positive direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>- The second robot at position 4 moves in the negative direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>- The third robot at position 6 will be repaired at the second factory. It does not need to move.<br>The limit of the first factory is 2, and it fixed 2 robots.<br>The limit of the second factory is 2, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The total distance is |2 - 0| + |2 - 4| + |6 - 6| = 4. It can be shown that we cannot achieve a better total distance than 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: robot = \[1,-1\], factory = \[\[-2,1\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: As shown in the figure:<br>- The first robot at position 1 moves in the positive direction. It will be repaired at the second factory.<br>- The second robot at position -1 moves in the negative direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>The limit of the first factory is 1, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The limit of the second factory is 1, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The total distance is |2 - 1| + |(-2) - (-1)| = 2. It can be shown that we cannot achieve a better total distance than 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= robot.length, factory.length <= 100`<br>   `factory[j].length == 2`<br>   `-109 <= robot[i], positionj <= 109`<br>   `0 <= limitj <= robot.length`<br>   The input will be generated such that it is always possible to repair every robot."""<br><br>    robot.sort()<br>    factory.sort()<br><br>    res = 0<br>    idx = 0<br>    for f_pos, f_limit in factory:<br>        while f_limit  0 and idx < len(robot):<br>            res += abs(f_pos - robot[idx])<br>            idx += 1<br>            f_limit -= 1<br>    <br>    return res

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1155.txt
> def numRollsToTarget(n, k, target):<br>    """You have `n` dice, and each die has `k` faces numbered from `1` to `k`.<br><br>Given three integers `n`, `k`, and `target`, return _the number of possible ways (out of the_ `kn` _total ways)_ _to roll the dice, so the sum of the face-up numbers equals_ `target`. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1, k = 6, target = 3<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You throw one die with 6 faces.<br>There is only one way to get a sum of 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, k = 6, target = 7<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: You throw two dice, each with 6 faces.<br>There are 6 ways to get a sum of 7: 1+6, 2+5, 3+4, 4+3, 5+2, 6+1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 30, k = 30, target = 500<br>Output: 222616187<br>Explanation: The answer must be returned modulo 109 + 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n, k <= 30`<br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`"""<br><br>    MOD = 1000000007<br>    dp = [[0 for _ in range(target + 1)] for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    dp[0][0] = 1<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i, target + 1):<br>            for d in range(1, k + 1):<br>                if j - d = 0:<br>                    dp[i][j] = (dp[i][j] + dp[i - 1][j - d]) % MOD<br>    return dp[n][target]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_50.txt
> def myPow(x: float, n: int) - float:<br>    """Implement [pow(x, n)](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/valarray/pow/), which calculates `x` raised to the power `n` (i.e., `xn`).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: x = 2.00000, n = 10<br>Output: 1024.00000<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: x = 2.10000, n = 3<br>Output: 9.26100<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: x = 2.00000, n = -2<br>Output: 0.25000<br>Explanation: 2\-2 = 1/22 = 1/4 = 0.25<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `-100.0 < x < 100.0`<br>   `-231 <= n <= 231-1`<br>   `n` is an integer.<br>   `-104 <= xn <= 104`"""<br><br>    if n == 0:<br>        return 1<br>    if n < 0:<br>        x = 1 / x<br>        n = -n<br>    result = 1<br>    currentProduct = x<br>    i = n<br>    while i:<br>        if i % 2 == 1:<br>            result = currentProduct<br>        currentProduct = currentProduct<br>        i //= 2<br>    return result
