# Query `140`

## Original Question

*There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with `n` nodes indexed from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array edges of length `n - 1`, where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree. You are also given an array `coins` of size `n` where `coins[i]` can be either `0` or `1`, where `1` indicates the presence of a coin in the vertex `i`.

Initially, you choose to start at any vertex in the tree. Then, you can perform the following operations any number of times:

   Collect all the coins that are at a distance of at most `2` from the current vertex, or
   Move to any adjacent vertex in the tree.

Find _the minimum number of edges you need to go through to collect all the coins and go back to the initial vertex_.

Note that if you pass an edge several times, you need to count it into the answer several times.

Example 1:

Input: coins = \[1,0,0,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]
Output: 2
Explanation: Start at vertex 2, collect the coin at vertex 0, move to vertex 3, collect the coin at vertex 5 then move back to vertex 2.

Example 2:

Input: coins = \[0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[5,6\],\[5,7\]\]
Output: 2
Explanation: Start at vertex 0, collect the coins at vertices 4 and 3, move to vertex 2,  collect the coin at vertex 7, then move back to vertex 0.

Constraints:

   `n == coins.length`
   `1 <= n <= 3  104`
   `0 <= coins[i] <= 1`
   `edges.length == n - 1`
   `edges[i].length == 2`
   `0 <= ai, bi < n`
   `ai != bi`
   `edges` represents a valid tree.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4030
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4030
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4030
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4030
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1944
map_cut_25: 0.1944
map_cut_50: 0.1944
map_cut_100: 0.1944
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2316.txt
> def count_hills_valleys(nums):<br>    """You are given an integer `n`. There is an undirected graph with `n` nodes, numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>Return _the number of pairs of different nodes that are unreachable from each other_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no pairs of nodes that are unreachable from each other. Therefore, we return 0.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[0,2\],\[0,5\],\[2,4\],\[1,6\],\[5,4\]\]<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: There are 14 pairs of nodes that are unreachable from each other:<br>\[\[0,1\],\[0,3\],\[0,6\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[1,5\],\[2,3\],\[2,6\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\],\[4,6\],\[5,6\]\].<br>Therefore, we return 14.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= 2  105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums) - 1):<br>        if (nums[i]  nums[i - 1] and nums[i]  nums[i + 1]) or (nums[i] < nums[i - 1] and nums[i] < nums[i + 1]):<br>            count += 1<br>    return count

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2508.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is an undirected graph consisting of `n` nodes numbered from `1` to `n`. You are given the integer `n` and a 2D array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi`. The graph can be disconnected.<br><br>You can add at most two additional edges (possibly none) to this graph so that there are no repeated edges and no self-loops.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to make the degree of each node in the graph even, otherwise return_ `false`_._<br><br>The degree of a node is the number of edges connected to it.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,2\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows a valid way of adding an edge.<br>Every node in the resulting graph is connected to an even number of edges.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows a valid way of adding two edges.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is not possible to obtain a valid graph with adding at most 2 edges.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br><br>def possible_degree_even(n, edges):<br>    degrees = defaultdict(int)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        degrees[a] += 1<br>        degrees[b] += 1<br><br>    odd_degrees = sum(1 for d in range(1, n + 1) if degrees[d] % 2 != 0)<br>    return odd_degrees == 0 or odd_degrees == 2

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2581.txt
> def possibleRoots(edges, guesses, k):<br>    """Alice has an undirected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. The tree is represented as a 2D integer array `edges` of length `n - 1` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>Alice wants Bob to find the root of the tree. She allows Bob to make several guesses about her tree. In one guess, he does the following:<br><br>   Chooses two distinct integers `u` and `v` such that there exists an edge `[u, v]` in the tree.<br>   He tells Alice that `u` is the parent of `v` in the tree.<br><br>Bob's guesses are represented by a 2D integer array `guesses` where `guesses[j] = [uj, vj]` indicates Bob guessed `uj` to be the parent of `vj`.<br><br>Alice being lazy, does not reply to each of Bob's guesses, but just says that at least `k` of his guesses are `true`.<br><br>Given the 2D integer arrays `edges`, `guesses` and the integer `k`, return _the number of possible nodes that can be the root of Alice's tree_. If there is no such tree, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[4,2\]\], guesses = \[\[1,3\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[2,4\]\], k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: <br>Root = 0, correct guesses = \[1,3\], \[0,1\], \[2,4\]<br>Root = 1, correct guesses = \[1,3\], \[1,0\], \[2,4\]<br>Root = 2, correct guesses = \[1,3\], \[1,0\], \[2,4\]<br>Root = 3, correct guesses = \[1,0\], \[2,4\]<br>Root = 4, correct guesses = \[1,3\], \[1,0\]<br>Considering 0, 1, or 2 as root node leads to 3 correct guesses.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\], guesses = \[\[1,0\],\[3,4\],\[2,1\],\[3,2\]\], k = 1<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: <br>Root = 0, correct guesses = \[3,4\]<br>Root = 1, correct guesses = \[1,0\], \[3,4\]<br>Root = 2, correct guesses = \[1,0\], \[2,1\], \[3,4\]<br>Root = 3, correct guesses = \[1,0\], \[2,1\], \[3,2\], \[3,4\]<br>Root = 4, correct guesses = \[1,0\], \[2,1\], \[3,2\]<br>Considering any node as root will give at least 1 correct guess. <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= guesses.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi, uj, vj <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `uj != vj`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree.<br>   `guesses[j]` is an edge of the tree.<br>   `guesses` is unique.<br>   `0 <= k <= guesses.length`"""<br><br>    n = len(edges) + 1<br>    in_degree = [0]  n<br>    guess_parents = set()<br>    <br>    for guess in guesses:<br>        guess_parents.add(guess[0])<br>    <br>    for edge in edges:<br>        in_degree[edge[1]] += 1<br>    <br>    possible_roots = 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if in_degree[i] == 0:<br>            if k == 0 or i in guess_parents:<br>                possible_roots += 1<br>        elif in_degree[i] == 1 and len(guesses) - k < in_degree[i]:<br>            possible_roots += 1<br>    <br>    return possible_roots

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_684.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """In this problem, a tree is an undirected graph that is connected and has no cycles.<br><br>You are given a graph that started as a tree with `n` nodes labeled from `1` to `n`, with one additional edge added. The added edge has two different vertices chosen from `1` to `n`, and was not an edge that already existed. The graph is represented as an array `edges` of length `n` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the graph.<br><br>Return _an edge that can be removed so that the resulting graph is a tree of_ `n` _nodes_. If there are multiple answers, return the answer that occurs last in the input.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[1,4\],\[1,5\]\]<br>Output: \[1,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == edges.length`<br>   `3 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai < bi <= edges.length`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no repeated edges.<br>   The given graph is connected."""<br><br><br>def findRedundantConnection(edges: List[List[int]]) - List[int]:<br>    def find(parent, x):<br>        if parent[x] != x:<br>            parent[x] = find(parent, parent[x])<br>        return parent[x]<br><br>    parent = list(range(len(edges) + 1))<br>    for edge in edges:<br>        root1 = find(parent, edge[0])<br>        root2 = find(parent, edge[1])<br>        if root1 == root2:<br>            return edge<br>        parent[root1] = root2<br>    return []

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2045.txt
> from collections import defaultdict, deque<br>    """A city is represented as a bi-directional connected graph with `n` vertices where each vertex is labeled from `1` to `n` (inclusive). The edges in the graph are represented as a 2D integer array `edges`, where each `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` denotes a bi-directional edge between vertex `ui` and vertex `vi`. Every vertex pair is connected by at most one edge, and no vertex has an edge to itself. The time taken to traverse any edge is `time` minutes.<br><br>Each vertex has a traffic signal which changes its color from green to red and vice versa every `change` minutes. All signals change at the same time. You can enter a vertex at any time, but can leave a vertex only when the signal is green. You cannot wait at a vertex if the signal is green.<br><br>The second minimum value is defined as the smallest value strictly larger than the minimum value.<br><br>   For example the second minimum value of `[2, 3, 4]` is `3`, and the second minimum value of `[2, 2, 4]` is `4`.<br><br>Given `n`, `edges`, `time`, and `change`, return _the second minimum time it will take to go from vertex_ `1` _to vertex_ `n`.<br><br>Notes:<br><br>   You can go through any vertex any number of times, including `1` and `n`.<br>   You can assume that when the journey starts, all signals have just turned green.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>       <br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\], time = 3, change = 5<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>The figure on the left shows the given graph.<br>The blue path in the figure on the right is the minimum time path.<br>The time taken is:<br>- Start at 1, time elapsed=0<br>- 1 - 4: 3 minutes, time elapsed=3<br>- 4 - 5: 3 minutes, time elapsed=6<br>Hence the minimum time needed is 6 minutes.<br><br>The red path shows the path to get the second minimum time.<br>- Start at 1, time elapsed=0<br>- 1 - 3: 3 minutes, time elapsed=3<br>- 3 - 4: 3 minutes, time elapsed=6<br>- Wait at 4 for 4 minutes, time elapsed=10<br>- 4 - 5: 3 minutes, time elapsed=13<br>Hence the second minimum time is 13 minutes.      <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,2\]\], time = 3, change = 2<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation:<br>The minimum time path is 1 - 2 with time = 3 minutes.<br>The second minimum time path is 1 - 2 - 1 - 2 with time = 11 minutes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 104`<br>   `n - 1 <= edges.length <= min(2  104, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   Each vertex can be reached directly or indirectly from every other vertex.<br>   `1 <= time, change <= 103`"""<br><br><br>def secondMinimum(n, edges, time, change):<br>    graph = defaultdict(list)<br>    <br>    for u, v in edges:<br>        graph[u].append(v)<br>        graph[v].append(u)<br><br>    dist = [float('inf')]  (n + 1)<br>    dist2 = [float('inf')]  (n + 1)<br>    dist[1] = 0<br><br>    q = deque([1])<br><br>    while q:<br>        cur = q.popleft()<br><br>        nextDist = dist[cur] + time<br>        waitTime = change if (nextDist // change) % 2 == 1 else 0<br>        nextDist += waitTime<br><br>        for next in graph[cur]:<br>            if nextDist < dist[next]:<br>                nextDist, dist[next] = dist[next], nextDist<br>                q.append(next)<br>            if nextDist < dist2[next]:<br>                nextDist, dist2[next] = dist2[next], nextDist<br>                q.append(next)<br><br>    return dist2[n]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 8, leetcode/leetcode_310.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """A tree is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by _exactly_ one path. In other words, any connected graph without simple cycles is a tree.<br><br>Given a tree of `n` nodes labelled from `0` to `n - 1`, and an array of `n - 1` `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an undirected edge between the two nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree, you can choose any node of the tree as the root. When you select a node `x` as the root, the result tree has height `h`. Among all possible rooted trees, those with minimum height (i.e. `min(h)`) are called minimum height trees (MHTs).<br><br>Return _a list of all MHTs' root labels_. You can return the answer in any order.<br><br>The height of a rooted tree is the number of edges on the longest downward path between the root and a leaf.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: \[1\]<br>Explanation: As shown, the height of the tree is 1 when the root is the node with label 1 which is the only MHT.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[3,0\],\[3,1\],\[3,2\],\[3,4\],\[5,4\]\]<br>Output: \[3,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 2  104`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   All the pairs `(ai, bi)` are distinct.<br>   The given input is guaranteed to be a tree and there will be no repeated edges."""<br><br>from typing import List<br><br>def find_min_height_trees(n: int, edges: List[List[int]]) - List[int]:<br>    if n == 1:<br>        return [0]<br><br>    adj_list = [set() for _ in range(n)]<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        adj_list[a].add(b)<br>        adj_list[b].add(a)<br><br>    leaves = deque(i for i in range(n) if len(adj_list[i]) == 1)<br><br>    while n  2:<br>        leaves_size = len(leaves)<br>        n -= leaves_size<br>        for _ in range(leaves_size):<br>            leaf = leaves.popleft()<br>            for neighbor in adj_list[leaf]:<br>                adj_list[neighbor].remove(leaf)<br>                if len(adj_list[neighbor]) == 1:<br>                    leaves.append(neighbor)<br><br>    return list(leaves)

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 5, leetcode/leetcode_834.txt
> def ambiguousCoordinates(s):<br>    """There is an undirected connected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and `n - 1` edges.<br><br>You are given the integer `n` and the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>Return an array `answer` of length `n` where `answer[i]` is the sum of the distances between the `ith` node in the tree and all other nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: \[8,12,6,10,10,10\]<br>Explanation: The tree is shown above.<br>We can see that dist(0,1) + dist(0,2) + dist(0,3) + dist(0,4) + dist(0,5)<br>equals 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8.<br>Hence, answer\[0\] = 8, and so on.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, edges = \[\]<br>Output: \[0\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   The given input represents a valid tree."""<br><br>    def generateNumber(s):<br>        if not s or (len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0' and s[-1] == '0'):<br>            return []<br>        if len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0':<br>            return ["0." + s[1:]]<br>        res = [s]<br>        if len(s) == 1 or s[-1] == '0':<br>            return res<br>        for i in range(1, len(s)):<br>            res.append(s[:i] + "." + s[i:])<br>        return res<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    res = []<br>    <br>    for i in range(2, n - 1):<br>        first = generateNumber(s[1:i])<br>        second = generateNumber(s[i:n - 1])<br>        <br>        for f in first:<br>            for sec in second:<br>                res.append("(" + f + ", " + sec + ")")<br>    <br>    return res
