# Query `141`

## Original Question

*There are two mice and `n` different types of cheese, each type of cheese should be eaten by exactly one mouse.

A point of the cheese with index `i` (0-indexed) is:

   `reward1[i]` if the first mouse eats it.
   `reward2[i]` if the second mouse eats it.

You are given a positive integer array `reward1`, a positive integer array `reward2`, and a non-negative integer `k`.

Return _the maximum points the mice can achieve if the first mouse eats exactly_ `k` _types of cheese._

Example 1:

Input: reward1 = \[1,1,3,4\], reward2 = \[4,4,1,1\], k = 2
Output: 15
Explanation: In this example, the first mouse eats the 2nd (0-indexed) and the 3rd types of cheese, and the second mouse eats the 0th and the 1st types of cheese.
The total points are 4 + 4 + 3 + 4 = 15.
It can be proven that 15 is the maximum total points that the mice can achieve.

Example 2:

Input: reward1 = \[1,1\], reward2 = \[1,1\], k = 2
Output: 2
Explanation: In this example, the first mouse eats the 0th (0-indexed) and 1st types of cheese, and the second mouse does not eat any cheese.
The total points are 1 + 1 = 2.
It can be proven that 2 is the maximum total points that the mice can achieve.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n == reward1.length == reward2.length <= 105`
   `1 <= reward1[i], reward2[i] <= 1000`
   `0 <= k <= n`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0029
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2585.txt
> def numberOfWays(target, types):<br>    """There is a test that has `n` types of questions. You are given an integer `target` and a 0-indexed 2D integer array `types` where `types[i] = [counti, marksi]` indicates that there are `counti` questions of the `ith` type, and each one of them is worth `marksi` points.<br><br>Return _the number of ways you can earn exactly_ `target` _points in the exam_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that questions of the same type are indistinguishable.<br><br>   For example, if there are `3` questions of the same type, then solving the `1st` and `2nd` questions is the same as solving the `1st` and `3rd` questions, or the `2nd` and `3rd` questions.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 6, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: You can earn 6 points in one of the seven ways:<br>- Solve 6 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 6<br>- Solve 4 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 1 question of the 0th type, 1 question of the 1st type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 2 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 1st type: 2 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 2nd type: 3 + 3 = 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 5, types = \[\[50,1\],\[50,2\],\[50,5\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: You can earn 5 points in one of the four ways:<br>- Solve 5 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 2 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 question of the 2nd type: 5<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 18, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You can only earn 18 points by answering all questions.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`<br>   `n == types.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 50`<br>   `types[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= counti, marksi <= 50`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    dp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    for count, marks in types:<br>        dptmp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>        for i in range(target + 1):<br>            for j in range(count + 1):<br>                if j  marks + i <= target:<br>                    dptmp[i + j  marks] = (dptmp[i + j  marks] + dp[i]) % MOD<br>        dp = dptmp<br>    return dp[target]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1744.txt
> def num_ways(words, target):<br>    """You are given a (0-indexed) array of positive integers `candiesCount` where `candiesCount[i]` represents the number of candies of the `ith` type you have. You are also given a 2D array `queries` where `queries[i] = [favoriteTypei, favoriteDayi, dailyCapi]`.<br><br>You play a game with the following rules:<br><br>   You start eating candies on day `0`.<br>   You cannot eat any candy of type `i` unless you have eaten all candies of type `i - 1`.<br>   You must eat at least one candy per day until you have eaten all the candies.<br><br>Construct a boolean array `answer` such that `answer.length == queries.length` and `answer[i]` is `true` if you can eat a candy of type `favoriteTypei` on day `favoriteDayi` without eating more than `dailyCapi` candies on any day, and `false` otherwise. Note that you can eat different types of candy on the same day, provided that you follow rule 2.<br><br>Return _the constructed array_ `answer`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: candiesCount = \[7,4,5,3,8\], queries = \[\[0,2,2\],\[4,2,4\],\[2,13,1000000000\]\]<br>Output: \[true,false,true\]<br>Explanation:<br>1- If you eat 2 candies (type 0) on day 0 and 2 candies (type 0) on day 1, you will eat a candy of type 0 on day 2.<br>2- You can eat at most 4 candies each day.<br>   If you eat 4 candies every day, you will eat 4 candies (type 0) on day 0 and 4 candies (type 0 and type 1) on day 1.<br>   On day 2, you can only eat 4 candies (type 1 and type 2), so you cannot eat a candy of type 4 on day 2.<br>3- If you eat 1 candy each day, you will eat a candy of type 2 on day 13.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: candiesCount = \[5,2,6,4,1\], queries = \[\[3,1,2\],\[4,10,3\],\[3,10,100\],\[4,100,30\],\[1,3,1\]\]<br>Output: \[false,true,true,false,false\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= candiesCount.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= candiesCount[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= favoriteTypei < candiesCount.length`<br>   `0 <= favoriteDayi <= 109`<br>   `1 <= dailyCapi <= 109`"""<br><br>    n, m = len(words), len(target)<br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    cnt = [0]  26<br>    for word in words:<br>        for ch in word:<br>            cnt[ord(ch) - ord('a')] += 1<br>    dp = [0]  (m + 1)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    for ch in target:<br>        for i in range(m - 1, -1, -1):<br>            dp[i + 1] += dp[i]  cnt[ord(ch) - ord('a')]<br>            dp[i + 1] %= MOD<br>    return dp[m]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1655.txt
> from collections import Counter<br>    """You are given an array of `n` integers, `nums`, where there are at most `50` unique values in the array. You are also given an array of `m` customer order quantities, `quantity`, where `quantity[i]` is the amount of integers the `ith` customer ordered. Determine if it is possible to distribute `nums` such that:<br><br>   The `ith` customer gets exactly `quantity[i]` integers,<br>   The integers the `ith` customer gets are all equal, and<br>   Every customer is satisfied.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to distribute_ `nums` _according to the above conditions_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\], quantity = \[2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The 0th customer cannot be given two different integers.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,3\], quantity = \[2\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The 0th customer is given \[3,3\]. The integers \[1,2\] are not used.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,2,2\], quantity = \[2,2\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The 0th customer is given \[1,1\], and the 1st customer is given \[2,2\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`<br>   `m == quantity.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 10`<br>   `1 <= quantity[i] <= 105`<br>   There are at most `50` unique values in `nums`."""<br><br><br>def canDistribute(nums, quantity):<br>    counts = Counter(nums)<br>    values = list(counts.values())<br>    quantity.sort(reverse=True)<br><br>    def dfs(index, values):<br>        if index == len(quantity):<br>            return True<br>        for i in range(len(values)):<br>            if values[i] = quantity[index]:<br>                values[i] -= quantity[index]<br>                if dfs(index + 1, values):<br>                    return True<br>                values[i] += quantity[index]<br>        return False<br><br>    return dfs(0, values)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_575.txt
> def maxNumberOfCandies(candyType):<br>    """Alice has `n` candies, where the `ith` candy is of type `candyType[i]`. Alice noticed that she started to gain weight, so she visited a doctor.<br><br>The doctor advised Alice to only eat `n / 2` of the candies she has (`n` is always even). Alice likes her candies very much, and she wants to eat the maximum number of different types of candies while still following the doctor's advice.<br><br>Given the integer array `candyType` of length `n`, return _the maximum number of different types of candies she can eat if she only eats_ `n / 2` _of them_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[1,1,2,2,3,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 6 / 2 = 3 candies. Since there are only 3 types, she can eat one of each type.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[1,1,2,3\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 4 / 2 = 2 candies. Whether she eats types \[1,2\], \[1,3\], or \[2,3\], she still can only eat 2 different types.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: candyType = \[6,6,6,6\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: Alice can only eat 4 / 2 = 2 candies. Even though she can eat 2 candies, she only has 1 type.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == candyType.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 104`<br>   `n` is even.<br>   `-105 <= candyType[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    uniqueCandies = set(candyType)<br>    return min(len(uniqueCandies), len(candyType) // 2)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2365.txt
> def min_days_to_complete_tasks(tasks, space):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array of positive integers `tasks`, representing tasks that need to be completed in order, where `tasks[i]` represents the type of the `ith` task.<br><br>You are also given a positive integer `space`, which represents the minimum number of days that must pass after the completion of a task before another task of the same type can be performed.<br><br>Each day, until all tasks have been completed, you must either:<br><br>   Complete the next task from `tasks`, or<br>   Take a break.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of days needed to complete all tasks_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[1,2,1,2,3,1\], space = 3<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 9 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>Day 7: Take a break.<br>Day 8: Complete the 4th task.<br>Day 9: Complete the 5th task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 9 days.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[5,8,8,5\], space = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 6 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 6 days.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= tasks.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= tasks[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= space <= tasks.length`"""<br><br>    task_last_complete = {}<br>    days = 0<br><br>    for task in tasks:<br>        if task in task_last_complete:<br>            passed_days = days - task_last_complete[task]<br>            if passed_days < space:<br>                days += space - passed_days<br>        days += 1<br>        task_last_complete[task] = days<br><br>    return days


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_198.txt
> def rob(nums):<br>    """You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night.<br><br>Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return _the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,1\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).<br>Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,7,9,3,1\]<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).<br>Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 100`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 400`"""<br><br>    prev1, prev2 = 0, 0<br>    for num in nums:<br>        prev1, prev2 = max(prev2 + num, prev1), prev1<br>    return prev1
