# Query `15`

## Original Question

*Given an `m x n` integers `matrix`, return _the length of the longest increasing path in_ `matrix`.

From each cell, you can either move in four directions: left, right, up, or down. You may not move diagonally or move outside the boundary (i.e., wrap-around is not allowed).

Example 1:

Input: matrix = \[\[9,9,4\],\[6,6,8\],\[2,1,1\]\]
Output: 4
Explanation: The longest increasing path is `[1, 2, 6, 9]`.

Example 2:

Input: matrix = \[\[3,4,5\],\[3,2,6\],\[2,2,1\]\]
Output: 4
Explanation: The longest increasing path is `[3, 4, 5, 6]`. Moving diagonally is not allowed.

Example 3:

Input: matrix = \[\[1\]\]
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `m == matrix.length`
   `n == matrix[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 200`
   `0 <= matrix[i][j] <= 231 - 1`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.4307
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4307
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4307
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4307
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4307
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.2500
map_cut_10: 0.2500
map_cut_25: 0.2500
map_cut_50: 0.2500
map_cut_100: 0.2500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2087.txt
> def minTotalCost(startPos, homePos, rowCosts, colCosts):<br>    """There is an `m x n` grid, where `(0, 0)` is the top-left cell and `(m - 1, n - 1)` is the bottom-right cell. You are given an integer array `startPos` where `startPos = [startrow, startcol]` indicates that initially, a robot is at the cell `(startrow, startcol)`. You are also given an integer array `homePos` where `homePos = [homerow, homecol]` indicates that its home is at the cell `(homerow, homecol)`.<br><br>The robot needs to go to its home. It can move one cell in four directions: left, right, up, or down, and it can not move outside the boundary. Every move incurs some cost. You are further given two 0-indexed integer arrays: `rowCosts` of length `m` and `colCosts` of length `n`.<br><br>   If the robot moves up or down into a cell whose row is `r`, then this move costs `rowCosts[r]`.<br>   If the robot moves left or right into a cell whose column is `c`, then this move costs `colCosts[c]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total cost for this robot to return home_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: startPos = \[1, 0\], homePos = \[2, 3\], rowCosts = \[5, 4, 3\], colCosts = \[8, 2, 6, 7\]<br>Output: 18<br>Explanation: One optimal path is that:<br>Starting from (1, 0)<br>- It goes down to (2, 0). This move costs rowCosts\[2\] = 3.<br>- It goes right to (2, 1). This move costs colCosts\[1\] = 2.<br>- It goes right to (2, 2). This move costs colCosts\[2\] = 6.<br>- It goes right to (2, 3). This move costs colCosts\[3\] = 7.<br>The total cost is 3 + 2 + 6 + 7 = 18<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: startPos = \[0, 0\], homePos = \[0, 0\], rowCosts = \[5\], colCosts = \[26\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The robot is already at its home. Since no moves occur, the total cost is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == rowCosts.length`<br>   `n == colCosts.length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= rowCosts[r], colCosts[c] <= 104`<br>   `startPos.length == 2`<br>   `homePos.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startrow, homerow < m`<br>   `0 <= startcol, homecol < n`"""<br><br>    row_difference = abs(startPos[0] - homePos[0])<br>    col_difference = abs(startPos[1] - homePos[1])<br><br>    row_cost = sum(rowCosts[min(startPos[0], homePos[0]):min(startPos[0], homePos[0]) + row_difference])<br>    col_cost = sum(colCosts[min(startPos[1], homePos[1]):min(startPos[1], homePos[1]) + col_difference])<br><br>    return row_cost + col_cost

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2245.txt
> def can_destroy_all_asteroids(mass, asteroids):<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n`, where each cell contains a positive integer.<br><br>A cornered path is defined as a set of adjacent cells with at most one turn. More specifically, the path should exclusively move either horizontally or vertically up to the turn (if there is one), without returning to a previously visited cell. After the turn, the path will then move exclusively in the alternate direction: move vertically if it moved horizontally, and vice versa, also without returning to a previously visited cell.<br><br>The product of a path is defined as the product of all the values in the path.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path found in_ `grid`.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   Horizontal movement means moving in either the left or right direction.<br>   Vertical movement means moving in either the up or down direction.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[23,17,15,3,20\],\[8,1,20,27,11\],\[9,4,6,2,21\],\[40,9,1,10,6\],\[22,7,4,5,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The grid on the left shows a valid cornered path.<br>It has a product of 15 \ 20 \ 6 \ 1 \ 10 = 18000 which has 3 trailing zeros.<br>It can be shown that this is the maximum trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path.<br><br>The grid in the middle is not a cornered path as it has more than one turn.<br>The grid on the right is not a cornered path as it requires a return to a previously visited cell.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[4,3,2\],\[7,6,1\],\[8,8,8\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The grid is shown in the figure above.<br>There are no cornered paths in the grid that result in a product with a trailing zero.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    asteroids.sort()<br>    for asteroid in asteroids:<br>        if mass = asteroid:<br>            mass += asteroid<br>        else:<br>            return False<br>    return True

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_766.txt
> class Node:<br>    """Given an `m x n` `matrix`, return _`true` if the matrix is Toeplitz. Otherwise, return `false`._<br><br>A matrix is Toeplitz if every diagonal from top-left to bottom-right has the same elements.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1,2,3,4\],\[5,1,2,3\],\[9,5,1,2\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation:<br>In the above grid, the diagonals are:<br> "\[9\] ",  "\[5, 5\] ",  "\[1, 1, 1\] ",  "\[2, 2, 2\] ",  "\[3, 3\] ",  "\[4\] ".<br>In each diagonal all elements are the same, so the answer is True.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>The diagonal  "\[1, 2\] " has different elements.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == matrix.length`<br>   `n == matrix[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 20`<br>   `0 <= matrix[i][j] <= 99`<br><br>Follow up:<br><br>   What if the `matrix` is stored on disk, and the memory is limited such that you can only load at most one row of the matrix into the memory at once?<br>   What if the `matrix` is so large that you can only load up a partial row into the memory at once?"""<br><br>    def __init__(self, val=0, prev=None, next=None, child=None):<br>        self.val = val<br>        self.prev = prev<br>        self.next = next<br>        self.child = child<br><br>def flatten(head: Node) - Node:<br>    if not head:<br>        return None<br>    <br>    curr = head<br>    while curr:<br>        if curr.child:<br>            insert = curr.child<br>            next_node = curr.next<br>            <br>            insert.prev = curr<br>            curr.next = insert<br>            curr.child = None<br>            <br>            while insert.next:<br>                insert = insert.next<br>                <br>            if next_node:<br>                next_node.prev = insert<br>                insert.next = next_node<br>                <br>        curr = curr.next<br>        <br>    return head

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2328.txt
> def add_parentheses(expression: str) - str:<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid`, where you can move from a cell to any adjacent cell in all `4` directions.<br><br>Return _the number of strictly increasing paths in the grid such that you can start from any cell and end at any cell._ Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two paths are considered different if they do not have exactly the same sequence of visited cells.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:<br>- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[1\], \[3\], \[4\].<br>- Paths with length 2: \[1 - 3\], \[1 - 4\], \[3 - 4\].<br>- Paths with length 3: \[1 - 3 - 4\].<br>The total number of paths is 4 + 3 + 1 = 8.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1\],\[2\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:<br>- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[2\].<br>- Paths with length 2: \[1 - 2\].<br>The total number of paths is 2 + 1 = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 105`"""<br><br>    return f"({expression})"

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1219.txt
> def longest_wpi(hours):<br>    """In a gold mine `grid` of size `m x n`, each cell in this mine has an integer representing the amount of gold in that cell, `0` if it is empty.<br><br>Return the maximum amount of gold you can collect under the conditions:<br><br>   Every time you are located in a cell you will collect all the gold in that cell.<br>   From your position, you can walk one step to the left, right, up, or down.<br>   You can't visit the same cell more than once.<br>   Never visit a cell with `0` gold.<br>   You can start and stop collecting gold from any position in the grid that has some gold.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,6,0\],\[5,8,7\],\[0,9,0\]\]<br>Output: 24<br>Explanation:<br>\[\[0,6,0\],<br> \[5,8,7\],<br> \[0,9,0\]\]<br>Path to get the maximum gold, 9 - 8 - 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,7\],\[2,0,6\],\[3,4,5\],\[0,3,0\],\[9,0,20\]\]<br>Output: 28<br>Explanation:<br>\[\[1,0,7\],<br> \[2,0,6\],<br> \[3,4,5\],<br> \[0,3,0\],<br> \[9,0,20\]\]<br>Path to get the maximum gold, 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6 - 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 15`<br>   `0 <= grid[i][j] <= 100`<br>   There are at most 25 cells containing gold."""<br><br>    score = 0<br>    max_length = 0<br>    first_occurrence = {}<br><br>    for i, h in enumerate(hours):<br>        score += 1 if h  8 else -1<br>        if score  0:<br>            max_length = i + 1<br>        else:<br>            if score not in first_occurrence:<br>                first_occurrence[score] = i<br>            if score - 1 in first_occurrence:<br>                max_length = max(max_length, i - first_occurrence[score - 1])<br>    return max_length


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 3, leetcode/leetcode_2328.txt
> def add_parentheses(expression: str) - str:<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid`, where you can move from a cell to any adjacent cell in all `4` directions.<br><br>Return _the number of strictly increasing paths in the grid such that you can start from any cell and end at any cell._ Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two paths are considered different if they do not have exactly the same sequence of visited cells.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:<br>- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[1\], \[3\], \[4\].<br>- Paths with length 2: \[1 - 3\], \[1 - 4\], \[3 - 4\].<br>- Paths with length 3: \[1 - 3 - 4\].<br>The total number of paths is 4 + 3 + 1 = 8.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1\],\[2\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The strictly increasing paths are:<br>- Paths with length 1: \[1\], \[2\].<br>- Paths with length 2: \[1 - 2\].<br>The total number of paths is 2 + 1 = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 105`"""<br><br>    return f"({expression})"
