# Query `16`

## Original Question

*You are given a list of airline `tickets` where `tickets[i] = [fromi, toi]` represent the departure and the arrival airports of one flight. Reconstruct the itinerary in order and return it.

All of the tickets belong to a man who departs from `"JFK "`, thus, the itinerary must begin with `"JFK "`. If there are multiple valid itineraries, you should return the itinerary that has the smallest lexical order when read as a single string.

   For example, the itinerary `[ "JFK ", "LGA "]` has a smaller lexical order than `[ "JFK ", "LGB "]`.

You may assume all tickets form at least one valid itinerary. You must use all the tickets once and only once.

Example 1:

Input: tickets = \[\[ "MUC ", "LHR "\],\[ "JFK ", "MUC "\],\[ "SFO ", "SJC "\],\[ "LHR ", "SFO "\]\]
Output: \[ "JFK ", "MUC ", "LHR ", "SFO ", "SJC "\]

Example 2:

Input: tickets = \[\[ "JFK ", "SFO "\],\[ "JFK ", "ATL "\],\[ "SFO ", "ATL "\],\[ "ATL ", "JFK "\],\[ "ATL ", "SFO "\]\]
Output: \[ "JFK ", "ATL ", "JFK ", "SFO ", "ATL ", "SFO "\]
Explanation: Another possible reconstruction is \[ "JFK ", "SFO ", "ATL ", "JFK ", "ATL ", "SFO "\] but it is larger in lexical order.

Constraints:

   `1 <= tickets.length <= 300`
   `tickets[i].length == 2`
   `fromi.length == 3`
   `toi.length == 3`
   `fromi` and `toi` consist of uppercase English letters.
   `fromi != toi`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1557.txt
> def has_all_codes(s, k):<br>    """Given a directed acyclic graph, with `n` vertices numbered from `0` to `n-1`, and an array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi]` represents a directed edge from node `fromi` to node `toi`.<br><br>Find _the smallest set of vertices from which all nodes in the graph are reachable_. It's guaranteed that a unique solution exists.<br><br>Notice that you can return the vertices in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,5\],\[3,4\],\[4,2\]\]<br>Output: \[0,3\]<br>Explanation: It's not possible to reach all the nodes from a single vertex. From 0 we can reach \[0,1,2,5\]. From 3 we can reach \[3,4,2,5\]. So we output \[0,3\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[2,1\],\[3,1\],\[1,4\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[0,2,3\]<br>Explanation: Notice that vertices 0, 3 and 2 are not reachable from any other node, so we must include them. Also any of these vertices can reach nodes 1 and 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 10^5`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(10^5, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi < n`<br>   All pairs `(fromi, toi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    need = 1 << k<br>    got = set()<br>    <br>    for i in range(len(s) - k + 1):<br>        got.add(s[i:i + k])<br>    <br>    return len(got) == need

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1334.txt
> def findTheCity(n, edges, distanceThreshold):<br>    """There are `n` cities numbered from `0` to `n-1`. Given the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi, weighti]` represents a bidirectional and weighted edge between cities `fromi` and `toi`, and given the integer `distanceThreshold`.<br><br>Return the city with the smallest number of cities that are reachable through some path and whose distance is at most `distanceThreshold`, If there are multiple such cities, return the city with the greatest number.<br><br>Notice that the distance of a path connecting cities _i_ and _j_ is equal to the sum of the edges' weights along that path.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[0,1,3\],\[1,2,1\],\[1,3,4\],\[2,3,1\]\], distanceThreshold = 4<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The figure above describes the graph. <br>The neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 4 for each city are:<br>City 0 - \[City 1, City 2\] <br>City 1 - \[City 0, City 2, City 3\] <br>City 2 - \[City 0, City 1, City 3\] <br>City 3 - \[City 1, City 2\] <br>Cities 0 and 3 have 2 neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 4, but we have to return city 3 since it has the greatest number.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[0,1,2\],\[0,4,8\],\[1,2,3\],\[1,4,2\],\[2,3,1\],\[3,4,1\]\], distanceThreshold = 2<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The figure above describes the graph. <br>The neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 2 for each city are:<br>City 0 - \[City 1\] <br>City 1 - \[City 0, City 4\] <br>City 2 - \[City 3, City 4\] <br>City 3 - \[City 2, City 4\]<br>City 4 - \[City 1, City 2, City 3\] <br>The city 0 has 1 neighboring city at a distanceThreshold = 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 100`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= n  (n - 1) / 2`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= fromi < toi < n`<br>   `1 <= weighti, distanceThreshold <= 10^4`<br>   All pairs `(fromi, toi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    distance = [[1e5]  n for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        distance[edge[0]][edge[1]] = edge[2]<br>        distance[edge[1]][edge[0]] = edge[2]<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        distance[i][i] = 0<br><br>    for k in range(n):<br>        for i in range(n):<br>            for j in range(n):<br>                distance[i][j] = min(distance[i][j], distance[i][k] + distance[k][j])<br><br>    res, minReachable = 0, n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        reachable = sum(1 for j in range(n) if distance[i][j] <= distanceThreshold)<br>        if reachable <= minReachable:<br>            minReachable = reachable<br>            res = i<br>    return res

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2203.txt
> from heapq import heappop, heappush<br>    """You are given an integer `n` denoting the number of nodes of a weighted directed graph. The nodes are numbered from `0` to `n - 1`.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi, weighti]` denotes that there exists a directed edge from `fromi` to `toi` with weight `weighti`.<br><br>Lastly, you are given three distinct integers `src1`, `src2`, and `dest` denoting three distinct nodes of the graph.<br><br>Return _the minimum weight of a subgraph of the graph such that it is possible to reach_ `dest` _from both_ `src1` _and_ `src2` _via a set of edges of this subgraph_. In case such a subgraph does not exist, return `-1`.<br><br>A subgraph is a graph whose vertices and edges are subsets of the original graph. The weight of a subgraph is the sum of weights of its constituent edges.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,2,2\],\[0,5,6\],\[1,0,3\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,1,1\],\[2,3,3\],\[2,3,4\],\[3,4,2\],\[4,5,1\]\], src1 = 0, src2 = 1, dest = 5<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>The above figure represents the input graph.<br>The blue edges represent one of the subgraphs that yield the optimal answer.<br>Note that the subgraph \[\[1,0,3\],\[0,5,6\]\] also yields the optimal answer. It is not possible to get a subgraph with less weight satisfying all the constraints.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[0,1,1\],\[2,1,1\]\], src1 = 0, src2 = 1, dest = 2<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>The above figure represents the input graph.<br>It can be seen that there does not exist any path from node 1 to node 2, hence there are no subgraphs satisfying all the constraints.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi, src1, src2, dest <= n - 1`<br>   `fromi != toi`<br>   `src1`, `src2`, and `dest` are pairwise distinct.<br>   `1 <= weight[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>from sys import maxsize<br><br>def dijkstra(src, adj):<br>    dist = [maxsize]  len(adj)<br>    dist[src] = 0<br>    pq = [(0, src)]<br><br>    while pq:<br>        d, u = heappop(pq)<br>        if d != dist[u]:<br>            continue<br>        for v, w in adj[u]:<br>            if d + w < dist[v]:<br>                dist[v] = d + w<br>                heappush(pq, (dist[v], v))<br><br>    return dist<br><br>def min_weight_subgraph(n, edges, src1, src2, dest):<br>    adj = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br>    for u, v, w in edges:<br>        adj[u].append((v, w))<br><br>    dist1 = dijkstra(src1, adj)<br>    dist2 = dijkstra(src2, adj)<br><br>    res = dist1[dest] + dist2[dest]<br>    for u, v, w in edges:<br>        res = min(res, dist1[u] + dist2[v] + w)<br>        res = min(res, dist1[v] + dist2[u] + w)<br><br>    return res if res != maxsize else -1

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1094.txt
> def allCellsDistOrder(rows, cols, rCenter, cCenter):<br>    """There is a car with `capacity` empty seats. The vehicle only drives east (i.e., it cannot turn around and drive west).<br><br>You are given the integer `capacity` and an array `trips` where `trips[i] = [numPassengersi, fromi, toi]` indicates that the `ith` trip has `numPassengersi` passengers and the locations to pick them up and drop them off are `fromi` and `toi` respectively. The locations are given as the number of kilometers due east from the car's initial location.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to pick up and drop off all passengers for all the given trips, or_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: trips = \[\[2,1,5\],\[3,3,7\]\], capacity = 4<br>Output: false<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: trips = \[\[2,1,5\],\[3,3,7\]\], capacity = 5<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= trips.length <= 1000`<br>   `trips[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= numPassengersi <= 100`<br>   `0 <= fromi < toi <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= capacity <= 105`"""<br><br>    coordinates = [[i, j] for i in range(rows) for j in range(cols)]<br><br>    coordinates.sort(key=lambda x: abs(x[0] - rCenter) + abs(x[1] - cCenter))<br><br>    return coordinates

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1601.txt
> def maximumRequests(n, requests):<br>    """We have `n` buildings numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. Each building has a number of employees. It's transfer season, and some employees want to change the building they reside in.<br><br>You are given an array `requests` where `requests[i] = [fromi, toi]` represents an employee's request to transfer from building `fromi` to building `toi`.<br><br>All buildings are full, so a list of requests is achievable only if for each building, the net change in employee transfers is zero. This means the number of employees leaving is equal to the number of employees moving in. For example if `n = 3` and two employees are leaving building `0`, one is leaving building `1`, and one is leaving building `2`, there should be two employees moving to building `0`, one employee moving to building `1`, and one employee moving to building `2`.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of achievable requests_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, requests = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,0\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explantion: Let's see the requests:<br>From building 0 we have employees x and y and both want to move to building 1.<br>From building 1 we have employees a and b and they want to move to buildings 2 and 0 respectively.<br>From building 2 we have employee z and they want to move to building 0.<br>From building 3 we have employee c and they want to move to building 4.<br>From building 4 we don't have any requests.<br>We can achieve the requests of users x and b by swapping their places.<br>We can achieve the requests of users y, a and z by swapping the places in the 3 buildings.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 3, requests = \[\[0,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explantion: Let's see the requests:<br>From building 0 we have employee x and they want to stay in the same building 0.<br>From building 1 we have employee y and they want to move to building 2.<br>From building 2 we have employee z and they want to move to building 1.<br>We can achieve all the requests. <br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, requests = \[\[0,3\],\[3,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 20`<br>   `1 <= requests.length <= 16`<br>   `requests[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi < n`"""<br><br>    req_size = len(requests)<br>    max_requests = 0<br><br>    for i in range(1 << req_size):<br>        net_transfers = [0]  n<br>        count = 0<br>        <br>        for j in range(req_size):<br>            if i & (1 << j):<br>                net_transfers[requests[j][0]] -= 1<br>                net_transfers[requests[j][1]] += 1<br>                count += 1<br><br>        valid = all(val == 0 for val in net_transfers)<br><br>        if valid:<br>            max_requests = max(max_requests, count)<br><br>    return max_requests


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2097.txt
> def valid_arrangement(pairs):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `pairs` where `pairs[i] = [starti, endi]`. An arrangement of `pairs` is valid if for every index `i` where `1 <= i < pairs.length`, we have `endi-1 == starti`.<br><br>Return _any valid arrangement of_ `pairs`.<br><br>Note: The inputs will be generated such that there exists a valid arrangement of `pairs`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[5,1\],\[4,5\],\[11,9\],\[9,4\]\]<br>Output: \[\[11,9\],\[9,4\],\[4,5\],\[5,1\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>This is a valid arrangement since endi-1 always equals starti.<br>end0 = 9 == 9 = start1 <br>end1 = 4 == 4 = start2<br>end2 = 5 == 5 = start3<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[1,3\],\[3,2\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,3\],\[3,2\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>This is a valid arrangement since endi-1 always equals starti.<br>end0 = 3 == 3 = start1<br>end1 = 2 == 2 = start2<br>The arrangements \[\[2,1\],\[1,3\],\[3,2\]\] and \[\[3,2\],\[2,1\],\[1,3\]\] are also valid.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>This is a valid arrangement since endi-1 always equals starti.<br>end0 = 2 == 2 = start1<br>end1 = 1 == 1 = start2<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= pairs.length <= 105`<br>   `pairs[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= starti, endi <= 109`<br>   `starti != endi`<br>   No two pairs are exactly the same.<br>   There exists a valid arrangement of `pairs`."""<br><br>    graph = {}<br>    for start, end in pairs:<br>        if start not in graph:<br>            graph[start] = []<br>        graph[start].append(end)<br><br>    result = []<br>    current = pairs[0][0]<br><br>    while graph:<br>        pair = [current, graph[current].pop()]<br>        if not graph[current]:<br>            del graph[current]<br>        result.append(pair)<br>        current = pair[1]<br><br>    return result
