# Query `17`

## Original Question

*We are playing the Guess Game. The game is as follows:

I pick a number from `1` to `n`. You have to guess which number I picked.

Every time you guess wrong, I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower than your guess.

You call a pre-defined API `int guess(int num)`, which returns three possible results:

   `-1`: Your guess is higher than the number I picked (i.e. `num > pick`).
   `1`: Your guess is lower than the number I picked (i.e. `num < pick`).
   `0`: your guess is equal to the number I picked (i.e. `num == pick`).

Return _the number that I picked_.

Example 1:

Input: n = 10, pick = 6
Output: 6

Example 2:

Input: n = 1, pick = 1
Output: 1

Example 3:

Input: n = 2, pick = 1
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`
   `1 <= pick <= n`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.3333
recall_5: 0.3333
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_25: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_50: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_100: 0.4693
map_cut_1: 0.3333
map_cut_5: 0.3333
map_cut_10: 0.3333
map_cut_25: 0.3333
map_cut_50: 0.3333
map_cut_100: 0.3333
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_375.txt
> def getMoneyAmount(n: int) - int:<br>    """We are playing the Guessing Game. The game will work as follows:<br><br>1.  I pick a number between `1` and `n`.<br>2.  You guess a number.<br>3.  If you guess the right number, you win the game.<br>4.  If you guess the wrong number, then I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower, and you will continue guessing.<br>5.  Every time you guess a wrong number `x`, you will pay `x` dollars. If you run out of money, you lose the game.<br><br>Given a particular `n`, return _the minimum amount of money you need to guarantee a win regardless of what number I pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The winning strategy is as follows:<br>- The range is \[1,10\]. Guess 7.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $7.<br>    - If my number is higher, the range is \[8,10\]. Guess 9.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $9.<br>        - If my number is higher, it must be 10. Guess 10. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>        - If my number is lower, it must be 8. Guess 8. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>    - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,6\]. Guess 3.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $3.<br>        - If my number is higher, the range is \[4,6\]. Guess 5.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $5.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 6. Guess 6. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>            - If my number is lower, it must be 4. Guess 4. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>        - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,2\]. Guess 1.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $7 + $3 + $1 = $11.<br>The worst case in all these scenarios is that you pay $16. Hence, you only need $16 to guarantee a win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is only one possible number, so you can guess 1 and not have to pay anything.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There are two possible numbers, 1 and 2.<br>- Guess 1.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>    - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $1.<br>The worst case is that you pay $1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`"""<br><br>    dp = [[0]  (n + 1) for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    for i in range(n - 1, 0, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n + 1):<br>            min_cost = float("inf")<br>            for k in range(i, j):<br>                cost = k + max(dp[i][k - 1], dp[k + 1][j])<br>                min_cost = min(min_cost, cost)<br>            dp[i][j] = min_cost<br>    return dp[1][n]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_299.txt
> def get_hint(secret: str, guess: str) - str:<br>    """You are playing the [Bulls and Cows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulls_and_Cows) game with your friend.<br><br>You write down a secret number and ask your friend to guess what the number is. When your friend makes a guess, you provide a hint with the following info:<br><br>   The number of "bulls ", which are digits in the guess that are in the correct position.<br>   The number of "cows ", which are digits in the guess that are in your secret number but are located in the wrong position. Specifically, the non-bull digits in the guess that could be rearranged such that they become bulls.<br><br>Given the secret number `secret` and your friend's guess `guess`, return _the hint for your friend's guess_.<br><br>The hint should be formatted as `"xAyB "`, where `x` is the number of bulls and `y` is the number of cows. Note that both `secret` and `guess` may contain duplicate digits.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: secret =  "1807 ", guess =  "7810 "<br>Output:  "1A3B "<br>Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:<br> "1807 "<br>  |<br> "7810 "<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: secret =  "1123 ", guess =  "0111 "<br>Output:  "1A1B "<br>Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:<br> "1123 "         "1123 "<br>  |      or     |<br> "0111 "         "0111 "<br>Note that only one of the two unmatched 1s is counted as a cow since the non-bull digits can only be rearranged to allow one 1 to be a bull.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= secret.length, guess.length <= 1000`<br>   `secret.length == guess.length`<br>   `secret` and `guess` consist of digits only."""<br><br>    bulls = cows = 0<br>    secret_count = [0]  10<br>    guess_count = [0]  10<br><br>    for i in range(len(secret)):<br>        if secret[i] == guess[i]:<br>            bulls += 1<br>        else:<br>            secret_count[int(secret[i])] += 1<br>            guess_count[int(guess[i])] += 1<br>   <br>    for i in range(10):<br>        cows += min(secret_count[i], guess_count[i])<br>    <br>    return f"{bulls}A{cows}B"

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1388.txt
> def maxSumDivThree(nums):<br>    """There is a pizza with `3n` slices of varying size, you and your friends will take slices of pizza as follows:<br><br>   You will pick any pizza slice.<br>   Your friend Alice will pick the next slice in the anti-clockwise direction of your pick.<br>   Your friend Bob will pick the next slice in the clockwise direction of your pick.<br>   Repeat until there are no more slices of pizzas.<br><br>Given an integer array `slices` that represent the sizes of the pizza slices in a clockwise direction, return _the maximum possible sum of slice sizes that you can pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: slices = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\]<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: Pick pizza slice of size 4, Alice and Bob will pick slices with size 3 and 5 respectively. Then Pick slices with size 6, finally Alice and Bob will pick slice of size 2 and 1 respectively. Total = 4 + 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: slices = \[8,9,8,6,1,1\]<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: Pick pizza slice of size 8 in each turn. If you pick slice with size 9 your partners will pick slices of size 8.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3  n == slices.length`<br>   `1 <= slices.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= slices[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    dp = [0, 0, 0]<br>    for num in nums:<br>        temp = dp[:]<br>        for s in temp:<br>            dp[(s + num) % 3] = max(dp[(s + num) % 3], s + num)<br>    return dp[0]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2208.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given an array `nums` of positive integers. In one operation, you can choose any number from `nums` and reduce it to exactly half the number. (Note that you may choose this reduced number in future operations.)<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations to reduce the sum of_ `nums` _by at least half._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,19,8,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The initial sum of nums is equal to 5 + 19 + 8 + 1 = 33.<br>The following is one of the ways to reduce the sum by at least half:<br>Pick the number 19 and reduce it to 9.5.<br>Pick the number 9.5 and reduce it to 4.75.<br>Pick the number 8 and reduce it to 4.<br>The final array is \[5, 4.75, 4, 1\] with a total sum of 5 + 4.75 + 4 + 1 = 14.75. <br>The sum of nums has been reduced by 33 - 14.75 = 18.25, which is at least half of the initial sum, 18.25 = 33/2 = 16.5.<br>Overall, 3 operations were used so we return 3.<br>It can be shown that we cannot reduce the sum by at least half in less than 3 operations.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,8,20\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The initial sum of nums is equal to 3 + 8 + 20 = 31.<br>The following is one of the ways to reduce the sum by at least half:<br>Pick the number 20 and reduce it to 10.<br>Pick the number 10 and reduce it to 5.<br>Pick the number 3 and reduce it to 1.5.<br>The final array is \[1.5, 8, 5\] with a total sum of 1.5 + 8 + 5 = 14.5. <br>The sum of nums has been reduced by 31 - 14.5 = 16.5, which is at least half of the initial sum, 16.5 = 31/2 = 15.5.<br>Overall, 3 operations were used so we return 3.<br>It can be shown that we cannot reduce the sum by at least half in less than 3 operations.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 107`"""<br><br><br>def min_operations(nums):<br>    max_heap = [-num for num in nums]<br>    heapq.heapify(max_heap)<br>    initial_sum = sum(nums)<br>    target_sum = initial_sum // 2<br>    sum_so_far = 0<br>    operations = 0<br><br>    while sum_so_far <= target_sum:<br>        largest = -heapq.heappop(max_heap)<br>        sum_so_far += largest // 2<br>        operations += 1<br><br>    return operations

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_292.txt
> def canWinNim(n):<br>    """You are playing the following Nim Game with your friend:<br><br>   Initially, there is a heap of stones on the table.<br>   You and your friend will alternate taking turns, and you go first.<br>   On each turn, the person whose turn it is will remove 1 to 3 stones from the heap.<br>   The one who removes the last stone is the winner.<br><br>Given `n`, the number of stones in the heap, return `true` _if you can win the game assuming both you and your friend play optimally, otherwise return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: These are the possible outcomes:<br>1. You remove 1 stone. Your friend removes 3 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>2. You remove 2 stones. Your friend removes 2 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>3. You remove 3 stones. Your friend removes the last stone. Your friend wins.<br>In all outcomes, your friend wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    return n % 4 != 0


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_278.txt
> def first_bad_version(n):<br>    """You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.<br><br>Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.<br><br>You are given an API `bool isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, bad = 4<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation:<br>call isBadVersion(3) - false<br>call isBadVersion(5) - true<br>call isBadVersion(4) - true<br>Then 4 is the first bad version.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, bad = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= bad <= n <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    left, right = 1, n<br>    while left < right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if is_bad_version(mid):<br>            right = mid<br>        else:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>    return left

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_375.txt
> def getMoneyAmount(n: int) - int:<br>    """We are playing the Guessing Game. The game will work as follows:<br><br>1.  I pick a number between `1` and `n`.<br>2.  You guess a number.<br>3.  If you guess the right number, you win the game.<br>4.  If you guess the wrong number, then I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower, and you will continue guessing.<br>5.  Every time you guess a wrong number `x`, you will pay `x` dollars. If you run out of money, you lose the game.<br><br>Given a particular `n`, return _the minimum amount of money you need to guarantee a win regardless of what number I pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The winning strategy is as follows:<br>- The range is \[1,10\]. Guess 7.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $7.<br>    - If my number is higher, the range is \[8,10\]. Guess 9.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $9.<br>        - If my number is higher, it must be 10. Guess 10. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>        - If my number is lower, it must be 8. Guess 8. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.<br>    - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,6\]. Guess 3.<br>        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $3.<br>        - If my number is higher, the range is \[4,6\]. Guess 5.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $5.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 6. Guess 6. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>            - If my number is lower, it must be 4. Guess 4. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.<br>        - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,2\]. Guess 1.<br>            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>            - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $7 + $3 + $1 = $11.<br>The worst case in all these scenarios is that you pay $16. Hence, you only need $16 to guarantee a win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is only one possible number, so you can guess 1 and not have to pay anything.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There are two possible numbers, 1 and 2.<br>- Guess 1.<br>    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $1.<br>    - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $1.<br>The worst case is that you pay $1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`"""<br><br>    dp = [[0]  (n + 1) for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    for i in range(n - 1, 0, -1):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n + 1):<br>            min_cost = float("inf")<br>            for k in range(i, j):<br>                cost = k + max(dp[i][k - 1], dp[k + 1][j])<br>                min_cost = min(min_cost, cost)<br>            dp[i][j] = min_cost<br>    return dp[1][n]

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_658.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """Given a sorted integer array `arr`, two integers `k` and `x`, return the `k` closest integers to `x` in the array. The result should also be sorted in ascending order.<br><br>An integer `a` is closer to `x` than an integer `b` if:<br><br>   `|a - x| < |b - x|`, or<br>   `|a - x| == |b - x|` and `a < b`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3,4,5\], k = 4, x = 3<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3,4,5\], k = 4, x = -1<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= arr.length`<br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 104`<br>   `arr` is sorted in ascending order.<br>   `-104 <= arr[i], x <= 104`"""<br><br><br>def findClosestElements(arr: List[int], k: int, x: int) - List[int]:<br>    left = 0<br>    right = len(arr) - k<br><br>    while left < right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if x - arr[mid]  arr[mid + k] - x:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid<br><br>    return arr[left:left + k]
