# Query `18`

## Original Question

*We are playing the Guessing Game. The game will work as follows:

1.  I pick a number between `1` and `n`.
2.  You guess a number.
3.  If you guess the right number, you win the game.
4.  If you guess the wrong number, then I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower, and you will continue guessing.
5.  Every time you guess a wrong number `x`, you will pay `x` dollars. If you run out of money, you lose the game.

Given a particular `n`, return _the minimum amount of money you need to guarantee a win regardless of what number I pick_.

Example 1:

Input: n = 10
Output: 16
Explanation: The winning strategy is as follows:
- The range is \[1,10\]. Guess 7.
    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $7.
    - If my number is higher, the range is \[8,10\]. Guess 9.
        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $9.
        - If my number is higher, it must be 10. Guess 10. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.
        - If my number is lower, it must be 8. Guess 8. Your total is $7 + $9 = $16.
    - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,6\]. Guess 3.
        - If this is my number, your total is $7. Otherwise, you pay $3.
        - If my number is higher, the range is \[4,6\]. Guess 5.
            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $5.
            - If my number is higher, it must be 6. Guess 6. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.
            - If my number is lower, it must be 4. Guess 4. Your total is $7 + $3 + $5 = $15.
        - If my number is lower, the range is \[1,2\]. Guess 1.
            - If this is my number, your total is $7 + $3 = $10. Otherwise, you pay $1.
            - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $7 + $3 + $1 = $11.
The worst case in all these scenarios is that you pay $16. Hence, you only need $16 to guarantee a win.

Example 2:

Input: n = 1
Output: 0
Explanation: There is only one possible number, so you can guess 1 and not have to pay anything.

Example 3:

Input: n = 2
Output: 1
Explanation: There are two possible numbers, 1 and 2.
- Guess 1.
    - If this is my number, your total is $0. Otherwise, you pay $1.
    - If my number is higher, it must be 2. Guess 2. Your total is $1.
The worst case is that you pay $1.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 200`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.3333
recall_5: 0.3333
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.6667
recall_50: 0.6667
recall_100: 0.6667
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_10: 0.4693
ndcg_cut_25: 0.5798
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5798
ndcg_cut_100: 0.5798
map_cut_1: 0.3333
map_cut_5: 0.3333
map_cut_10: 0.3333
map_cut_25: 0.3704
map_cut_50: 0.3704
map_cut_100: 0.3704
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_374.txt
> def guessNumber(n):<br>    """We are playing the Guess Game. The game is as follows:<br><br>I pick a number from `1` to `n`. You have to guess which number I picked.<br><br>Every time you guess wrong, I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower than your guess.<br><br>You call a pre-defined API `int guess(int num)`, which returns three possible results:<br><br>   `-1`: Your guess is higher than the number I picked (i.e. `num  pick`).<br>   `1`: Your guess is lower than the number I picked (i.e. `num < pick`).<br>   `0`: your guess is equal to the number I picked (i.e. `num == pick`).<br><br>Return _the number that I picked_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10, pick = 6<br>Output: 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`<br>   `1 <= pick <= n`"""<br><br>    low, high = 1, n<br>    while low <= high:<br>        mid = low + (high - low) // 2<br>        result = guess(mid)<br>        if result == 0:<br>            return mid<br>        elif result < 0:<br>            high = mid - 1<br>        else:<br>            low = mid + 1<br>    return -1

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2303.txt
> def tax_amount(brackets, income):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `brackets` where `brackets[i] = [upperi, percenti]` means that the `ith` tax bracket has an upper bound of `upperi` and is taxed at a rate of `percenti`. The brackets are sorted by upper bound (i.e. `upperi-1 < upperi` for `0 < i < brackets.length`).<br><br>Tax is calculated as follows:<br><br>   The first `upper0` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent0`.<br>   The next `upper1 - upper0` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent1`.<br>   The next `upper2 - upper1` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent2`.<br>   And so on.<br><br>You are given an integer `income` representing the amount of money you earned. Return _the amount of money that you have to pay in taxes._ Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[3,50\],\[7,10\],\[12,25\]\], income = 10<br>Output: 2.65000<br>Explanation:<br>Based on your income, you have 3 dollars in the 1st tax bracket, 4 dollars in the 2nd tax bracket, and 3 dollars in the 3rd tax bracket.<br>The tax rate for the three tax brackets is 50%, 10%, and 25%, respectively.<br>In total, you pay $3 \ 50% + $4 \ 10% + $3 \ 25% = $2.65 in taxes.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[1,0\],\[4,25\],\[5,50\]\], income = 2<br>Output: 0.25000<br>Explanation:<br>Based on your income, you have 1 dollar in the 1st tax bracket and 1 dollar in the 2nd tax bracket.<br>The tax rate for the two tax brackets is 0% and 25%, respectively.<br>In total, you pay $1 \ 0% + $1 \ 25% = $0.25 in taxes.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[2,50\]\], income = 0<br>Output: 0.00000<br>Explanation:<br>You have no income to tax, so you have to pay a total of $0 in taxes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= brackets.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= upperi <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= percenti <= 100`<br>   `0 <= income <= 1000`<br>   `upperi` is sorted in ascending order.<br>   All the values of `upperi` are unique.<br>   The upper bound of the last tax bracket is greater than or equal to `income`."""<br><br>    tax = 0<br>    prev_upper = 0<br>    for upper, percent in brackets:<br>        tax += (min(upper, income) - prev_upper)  (percent / 100)<br>        prev_upper = upper<br>        if income <= upper:<br>            break<br>    return tax

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2281.txt
> mod = 1000000007<br>    """As the ruler of a kingdom, you have an army of wizards at your command.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed integer array `strength`, where `strength[i]` denotes the strength of the `ith` wizard. For a contiguous group of wizards (i.e. the wizards' strengths form a subarray of `strength`), the total strength is defined as the product of the following two values:<br><br>   The strength of the weakest wizard in the group.<br>   The total of all the individual strengths of the wizards in the group.<br><br>Return _the sum of the total strengths of all contiguous groups of wizards_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: strength = \[1,3,1,2\]<br>Output: 44<br>Explanation: The following are all the contiguous groups of wizards:<br>- \[1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1\]) \ sum(\[1\]) = 1 \ 1 = 1<br>- \[3\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3\]) \ sum(\[3\]) = 3 \ 3 = 9<br>- \[1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1\]) \ sum(\[1\]) = 1 \ 1 = 1<br>- \[2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[2\]) \ sum(\[2\]) = 2 \ 2 = 4<br>- \[1,3\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3\]) \ sum(\[1,3\]) = 1 \ 4 = 4<br>- \[3,1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3,1\]) \ sum(\[3,1\]) = 1 \ 4 = 4<br>- \[1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,2\]) \ sum(\[1,2\]) = 1 \ 3 = 3<br>- \[1,3,1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3,1\]) \ sum(\[1,3,1\]) = 1 \ 5 = 5<br>- \[3,1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3,1,2\]) \ sum(\[3,1,2\]) = 1 \ 6 = 6<br>- \[1,3,1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3,1,2\]) \ sum(\[1,3,1,2\]) = 1 \ 7 = 7<br>The sum of all the total strengths is 1 + 9 + 1 + 4 + 4 + 4 + 3 + 5 + 6 + 7 = 44.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: strength = \[5,4,6\]<br>Output: 213<br>Explanation: The following are all the contiguous groups of wizards: <br>- \[5\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5\]) \ sum(\[5\]) = 5 \ 5 = 25<br>- \[4\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[4\]) \ sum(\[4\]) = 4 \ 4 = 16<br>- \[6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[6\]) \ sum(\[6\]) = 6 \ 6 = 36<br>- \[5,4\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5,4\]) \ sum(\[5,4\]) = 4 \ 9 = 36<br>- \[4,6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[4,6\]) \ sum(\[4,6\]) = 4 \ 10 = 40<br>- \[5,4,6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5,4,6\]) \ sum(\[5,4,6\]) = 4 \ 15 = 60<br>The sum of all the total strengths is 25 + 16 + 36 + 36 + 40 + 60 = 213.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= strength.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= strength[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>def sum_of_strength(strength):<br>    res, strength_len = 0, len(strength)<br>    for i in range(strength_len):<br>        minimum = total = strength[i]<br>        for j in range(i, strength_len):<br>            minimum = min(minimum, strength[j])<br>            total += strength[j]<br>            res = (res + minimum  total % mod) % mod<br>    return res

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2008.txt
> def minOperationsToFlip(expression: str) - int:<br>    """There are `n` points on a road you are driving your taxi on. The `n` points on the road are labeled from `1` to `n` in the direction you are going, and you want to drive from point `1` to point `n` to make money by picking up passengers. You cannot change the direction of the taxi.<br><br>The passengers are represented by a 0-indexed 2D integer array `rides`, where `rides[i] = [starti, endi, tipi]` denotes the `ith` passenger requesting a ride from point `starti` to point `endi` who is willing to give a `tipi` dollar tip.<br><br>For each passenger `i` you pick up, you earn `endi - starti + tipi` dollars. You may only drive at most one passenger at a time.<br><br>Given `n` and `rides`, return _the maximum number of dollars you can earn by picking up the passengers optimally._<br><br>Note: You may drop off a passenger and pick up a different passenger at the same point.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, rides = \[\[2,5,4\],\[1,5,1\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: We can pick up passenger 0 to earn 5 - 2 + 4 = 7 dollars.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 20, rides = \[\[1,6,1\],\[3,10,2\],\[10,12,3\],\[11,12,2\],\[12,15,2\],\[13,18,1\]\]<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: We will pick up the following passengers:<br>- Drive passenger 1 from point 3 to point 10 for a profit of 10 - 3 + 2 = 9 dollars.<br>- Drive passenger 2 from point 10 to point 12 for a profit of 12 - 10 + 3 = 5 dollars.<br>- Drive passenger 5 from point 13 to point 18 for a profit of 18 - 13 + 1 = 6 dollars.<br>We earn 9 + 5 + 6 = 20 dollars in total.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= rides.length <= 3  104`<br>   `rides[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= starti < endi <= n`<br>   `1 <= tipi <= 105`"""<br><br>    zero, one, op = [0], [0], []<br>    for c in expression:<br>        if c == '&':<br>            op.append(1)<br>        elif c == '|':<br>            op.append(2)<br>        elif c.isdigit():<br>            if c == '0':<br>                one.append(1)<br>                zero.append(0)<br>            else:<br>                zero.append(1)<br>                one.append(0)<br>        elif c == ')':<br>            cur_op = op.pop()<br>            x = zero.pop()<br>            y = one.pop() + 1<br>            if cur_op == 1:<br>                new_zero = max(x, y)<br>                new_one = one[-1] + min(x, zero[-1])<br>            else:<br>                new_zero = zero[-1] + min(x, one[-1])<br>                new_one = max(y, one[-1])<br>            zero.pop()<br>            one.pop()<br>            zero.append(new_zero)<br>            one.append(new_one)<br>    return zero[-1] + 1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2383.txt
> def min_training_hours(initial_energy, initial_experience, energy, experience):<br>    """You are entering a competition, and are given two positive integers `initialEnergy` and `initialExperience` denoting your initial energy and initial experience respectively.<br><br>You are also given two 0-indexed integer arrays `energy` and `experience`, both of length `n`.<br><br>You will face `n` opponents in order. The energy and experience of the `ith` opponent is denoted by `energy[i]` and `experience[i]` respectively. When you face an opponent, you need to have both strictly greater experience and energy to defeat them and move to the next opponent if available.<br><br>Defeating the `ith` opponent increases your experience by `experience[i]`, but decreases your energy by `energy[i]`.<br><br>Before starting the competition, you can train for some number of hours. After each hour of training, you can either choose to increase your initial experience by one, or increase your initial energy by one.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of training hours required to defeat all_ `n` _opponents_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: initialEnergy = 5, initialExperience = 3, energy = \[1,4,3,2\], experience = \[2,6,3,1\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: You can increase your energy to 11 after 6 hours of training, and your experience to 5 after 2 hours of training.<br>You face the opponents in the following order:<br>- You have more energy and experience than the 0th opponent so you win.<br>  Your energy becomes 11 - 1 = 10, and your experience becomes 5 + 2 = 7.<br>- You have more energy and experience than the 1st opponent so you win.<br>  Your energy becomes 10 - 4 = 6, and your experience becomes 7 + 6 = 13.<br>- You have more energy and experience than the 2nd opponent so you win.<br>  Your energy becomes 6 - 3 = 3, and your experience becomes 13 + 3 = 16.<br>- You have more energy and experience than the 3rd opponent so you win.<br>  Your energy becomes 3 - 2 = 1, and your experience becomes 16 + 1 = 17.<br>You did a total of 6 + 2 = 8 hours of training before the competition, so we return 8.<br>It can be proven that no smaller answer exists.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: initialEnergy = 2, initialExperience = 4, energy = \[1\], experience = \[3\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: You do not need any additional energy or experience to win the competition, so we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == energy.length == experience.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `1 <= initialEnergy, initialExperience, energy[i], experience[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    n = len(energy)<br>    ans = int(1e9)<br>    for exp_gain in range(initial_energy + initial_experience + 1):<br>        training_hours = exp_gain<br>        energy_left = initial_energy - exp_gain<br>        curr_experience = initial_experience + exp_gain<br>        <br>        for i in range(n):<br>            while curr_experience <= experience[i] or energy_left <= energy[i]:<br>                energy_left -= 1<br>                training_hours += 1<br>            energy_left -= energy[i]<br>            curr_experience += experience[i]<br>        ans = min(ans, training_hours)<br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_374.txt
> def guessNumber(n):<br>    """We are playing the Guess Game. The game is as follows:<br><br>I pick a number from `1` to `n`. You have to guess which number I picked.<br><br>Every time you guess wrong, I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower than your guess.<br><br>You call a pre-defined API `int guess(int num)`, which returns three possible results:<br><br>   `-1`: Your guess is higher than the number I picked (i.e. `num  pick`).<br>   `1`: Your guess is lower than the number I picked (i.e. `num < pick`).<br>   `0`: your guess is equal to the number I picked (i.e. `num == pick`).<br><br>Return _the number that I picked_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 10, pick = 6<br>Output: 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, pick = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 231 - 1`<br>   `1 <= pick <= n`"""<br><br>    low, high = 1, n<br>    while low <= high:<br>        mid = low + (high - low) // 2<br>        result = guess(mid)<br>        if result == 0:<br>            return mid<br>        elif result < 0:<br>            high = mid - 1<br>        else:<br>            low = mid + 1<br>    return -1

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 17, leetcode/leetcode_464.txt
> def canIWin(maxChoosableInteger, desiredTotal):<br>    """In the "100 game " two players take turns adding, to a running total, any integer from `1` to `10`. The player who first causes the running total to reach or exceed 100 wins.<br><br>What if we change the game so that players cannot re-use integers?<br><br>For example, two players might take turns drawing from a common pool of numbers from 1 to 15 without replacement until they reach a total = 100.<br><br>Given two integers `maxChoosableInteger` and `desiredTotal`, return `true` if the first player to move can force a win, otherwise, return `false`. Assume both players play optimally.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 11<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>No matter which integer the first player choose, the first player will lose.<br>The first player can choose an integer from 1 up to 10.<br>If the first player choose 1, the second player can only choose integers from 2 up to 10.<br>The second player will win by choosing 10 and get a total = 11, which is = desiredTotal.<br>Same with other integers chosen by the first player, the second player will always win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 0<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 1<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= maxChoosableInteger <= 20`<br>   `0 <= desiredTotal <= 300`"""<br><br>    if maxChoosableInteger = desiredTotal: return True<br>    if (maxChoosableInteger  (maxChoosableInteger + 1)) // 2 < desiredTotal: return False<br><br>    memo = {}<br>        <br>    def canWin(state):<br>        if state in memo:<br>            return memo[state]<br>        for i in range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1):<br>            bitCheck = 1 << i<br>            if (state & bitCheck) == 0:<br>                if not canWin(state | bitCheck):<br>                    memo[state] = True<br>                    return True<br>    <br>        memo[state] = False<br>        return False<br><br>    return canWin(0)

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_658.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """Given a sorted integer array `arr`, two integers `k` and `x`, return the `k` closest integers to `x` in the array. The result should also be sorted in ascending order.<br><br>An integer `a` is closer to `x` than an integer `b` if:<br><br>   `|a - x| < |b - x|`, or<br>   `|a - x| == |b - x|` and `a < b`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3,4,5\], k = 4, x = 3<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2,3,4,5\], k = 4, x = -1<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= arr.length`<br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 104`<br>   `arr` is sorted in ascending order.<br>   `-104 <= arr[i], x <= 104`"""<br><br><br>def findClosestElements(arr: List[int], k: int, x: int) - List[int]:<br>    left = 0<br>    right = len(arr) - k<br><br>    while left < right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if x - arr[mid]  arr[mid + k] - x:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid<br><br>    return arr[left:left + k]
