# Query `2`

## Original Question

*The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_.

Example 1:

Input: n = 4
Output: 2
Explanation: There are two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown.

Example 2:

Input: n = 1
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 9`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_51.txt
> def solveNQueens(n):<br>    """The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _all distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: \[\[ ".Q.. ", "...Q ", "Q... ", "..Q. "\],\[ "..Q. ", "Q... ", "...Q ", ".Q.. "\]\]<br>Explanation: There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: \[\[ "Q "\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 9`"""<br><br>    def isSafe(board, row, col):<br>        for i in range(col):<br>            if board[row][i] == 'Q': return False<br>        i, j = row, col<br>        while i = 0 and j = 0:<br>            if board[i][j] == 'Q': return False<br>            i, j = i - 1, j - 1<br>        i, j = row, col<br>        while i < n and j = 0:<br>            if board[i][j] == 'Q': return False<br>            i, j = i + 1, j - 1<br>        return True<br><br>    def solve(result, board, n, col):<br>        if col == n:<br>            result.append(board.copy())<br>            return<br>        for row in range(n):<br>            if isSafe(board, row, col):<br>                board[row] = board[row][:col] + 'Q' + board[row][col + 1:]<br>                solve(result, board, n, col + 1)<br>                board[row] = board[row][:col] + '.' + board[row][col + 1:]<br><br>    result, board = [], ['.'  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    solve(result, board, n, 0)<br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1222.txt
> def remove_covered_intervals(intervals):<br>    """On a 0-indexed `8 x 8` chessboard, there can be multiple black queens ad one white king.<br><br>You are given a 2D integer array `queens` where `queens[i] = [xQueeni, yQueeni]` represents the position of the `ith` black queen on the chessboard. You are also given an integer array `king` of length `2` where `king = [xKing, yKing]` represents the position of the white king.<br><br>Return _the coordinates of the black queens that can directly attack the king_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[4,0\],\[0,4\],\[3,3\],\[2,4\]\], king = \[0,0\]<br>Output: \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[4,4\],\[4,5\]\], king = \[3,3\]<br>Output: \[\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[4,4\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= queens.length < 64`<br>   `queens[i].length == king.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= xQueeni, yQueeni, xKing, yKing < 8`<br>   All the given positions are unique."""<br><br>    intervals.sort(key=lambda x: (x[0], -x[1]))<br>    <br>    count = 0<br>    end = 0<br>    for i in intervals:<br>        if i[1]  end:<br>            count += 1<br>            end = i[1]<br>    return count

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1342.txt
> def queensAttacktheKing(queens, king):<br>    """Given an integer `num`, return _the number of steps to reduce it to zero_.<br><br>In one step, if the current number is even, you have to divide it by `2`, otherwise, you have to subtract `1` from it.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 14<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>Step 1) 14 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 7. <br>Step 2) 7 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 6.<br>Step 3) 6 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 3. <br>Step 4) 3 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 2. <br>Step 5) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. <br>Step 6) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 8<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: <br>Step 1) 8 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 4. <br>Step 2) 4 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 2. <br>Step 3) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. <br>Step 4) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: num = 123<br>Output: 12<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= num <= 106`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    for x in range(-1, 2):<br>        for y in range(-1, 2):<br>            if x == 0 and y == 0:<br>                continue<br>            posX, posY = king[0] + x, king[1] + y<br>            while 0 <= posX < 8 and 0 <= posY < 8:<br>                for queen in queens:<br>                    if posX == queen[0] and posY == queen[1]:<br>                        result.append([queen[0], queen[1]])<br>                        break<br>                posX += x<br>                posY += y<br>    return result

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_782.txt
> def numJewelsInStones(jewels, stones):<br>    """You are given an `n x n` binary grid `board`. In each move, you can swap any two rows with each other, or any two columns with each other.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of moves to transform the board into a chessboard board_. If the task is impossible, return `-1`.<br><br>A chessboard board is a board where no `0`'s and no `1`'s are 4-directionally adjacent.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\],\[1,0,0,1\],\[1,0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: One potential sequence of moves is shown.<br>The first move swaps the first and second column.<br>The second move swaps the second and third row.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Also note that the board with 0 in the top left corner, is also a valid chessboard.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[1,0\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: No matter what sequence of moves you make, you cannot end with a valid chessboard.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == board.length`<br>   `n == board[i].length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 30`<br>   `board[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for s in stones:<br>        if s in jewels:<br>            count += 1<br>    return count

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2018.txt
> from bisect import bisect_right<br>    """You are given an `m x n` matrix `board`, representing the current state of a crossword puzzle. The crossword contains lowercase English letters (from solved words), `' '` to represent any empty cells, and `'#'` to represent any blocked cells.<br><br>A word can be placed horizontally (left to right or right to left) or vertically (top to bottom or bottom to top) in the board if:<br><br>   It does not occupy a cell containing the character `'#'`.<br>   The cell each letter is placed in must either be `' '` (empty) or match the letter already on the `board`.<br>   There must not be any empty cells `' '` or other lowercase letters directly left or right of the word if the word was placed horizontally.<br>   There must not be any empty cells `' '` or other lowercase letters directly above or below the word if the word was placed vertically.<br><br>Given a string `word`, return `true` _if_ `word` _can be placed in_ `board`_, or_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[ "# ",  "  ",  "# "\], \[ "  ",  "  ",  "# "\], \[ "# ",  "c ",  "  "\]\], word =  "abc "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The word  "abc " can be placed as shown above (top to bottom).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[ "  ",  "# ",  "a "\], \[ "  ",  "# ",  "c "\], \[ "  ",  "# ",  "a "\]\], word =  "ac "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is impossible to place the word because there will always be a space/letter above or below it.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[ "# ",  "  ",  "# "\], \[ "  ",  "  ",  "# "\], \[ "# ",  "  ",  "c "\]\], word =  "ca "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The word  "ca " can be placed as shown above (right to left). <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == board.length`<br>   `n == board[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 2  105`<br>   `board[i][j]` will be `' '`, `'#'`, or a lowercase English letter.<br>   `1 <= word.length <= max(m, n)`<br>   `word` will contain only lowercase English letters."""<br><br><br>class Solution:<br>    def minWastedSpace(self, packages, boxes) - int:<br>        MOD = 109 + 7<br>        packages.sort()<br>        total_package_size = sum(packages)<br>        min_wasted_space = float('inf')<br><br>        for box_sizes in boxes:<br>            box_sizes.sort()<br>            if box_sizes[-1] < packages[-1]:<br>                continue<br>            wasted_space = 0<br>            package_idx = 0<br>            for box_size in box_sizes:<br>                package_idx = bisect_right(packages, box_size, package_idx)<br>                wasted_space += box_size - packages[package_idx - 1]<br>            min_wasted_space = min(min_wasted_space, wasted_space)<br><br>        return -1 if min_wasted_space == float('inf') else (total_package_size + min_wasted_space) % MOD


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_51.txt
> def solveNQueens(n):<br>    """The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _all distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: \[\[ ".Q.. ", "...Q ", "Q... ", "..Q. "\],\[ "..Q. ", "Q... ", "...Q ", ".Q.. "\]\]<br>Explanation: There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: \[\[ "Q "\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 9`"""<br><br>    def isSafe(board, row, col):<br>        for i in range(col):<br>            if board[row][i] == 'Q': return False<br>        i, j = row, col<br>        while i = 0 and j = 0:<br>            if board[i][j] == 'Q': return False<br>            i, j = i - 1, j - 1<br>        i, j = row, col<br>        while i < n and j = 0:<br>            if board[i][j] == 'Q': return False<br>            i, j = i + 1, j - 1<br>        return True<br><br>    def solve(result, board, n, col):<br>        if col == n:<br>            result.append(board.copy())<br>            return<br>        for row in range(n):<br>            if isSafe(board, row, col):<br>                board[row] = board[row][:col] + 'Q' + board[row][col + 1:]<br>                solve(result, board, n, col + 1)<br>                board[row] = board[row][:col] + '.' + board[row][col + 1:]<br><br>    result, board = [], ['.'  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    solve(result, board, n, 0)<br>    return result
