# Query `21`

## Original Question

*You are given `row x col` `grid` representing a map where `grid[i][j] = 1` represents land and `grid[i][j] = 0` represents water.

Grid cells are connected horizontally/vertically (not diagonally). The `grid` is completely surrounded by water, and there is exactly one island (i.e., one or more connected land cells).

The island doesn't have "lakes ", meaning the water inside isn't connected to the water around the island. One cell is a square with side length 1. The grid is rectangular, width and height don't exceed 100. Determine the perimeter of the island.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[0,1,0,0\],\[1,1,1,0\],\[0,1,0,0\],\[1,1,0,0\]\]
Output: 16
Explanation: The perimeter is the 16 yellow stripes in the image above.

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[1\]\]
Output: 4

Example 3:

Input: grid = \[\[1,0\]\]
Output: 4

Constraints:

   `row == grid.length`
   `col == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= row, col <= 100`
   `grid[i][j]` is `0` or `1`.
   There is exactly one island in `grid`.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.4000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0300
recall_1: 0.3333
recall_5: 0.6667
recall_10: 0.6667
recall_25: 0.6667
recall_50: 0.6667
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6508
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6508
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6508
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6508
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7306
map_cut_1: 0.3333
map_cut_5: 0.4667
map_cut_10: 0.4667
map_cut_25: 0.4667
map_cut_50: 0.4667
map_cut_100: 0.4839
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_695.txt
> def maxAreaOfIsland(grid):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` binary matrix `grid`. An island is a group of `1`'s (representing land) connected 4-directionally (horizontal or vertical.) You may assume all four edges of the grid are surrounded by water.<br><br>The area of an island is the number of cells with a value `1` in the island.<br><br>Return _the maximum area of an island in_ `grid`. If there is no island, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,1,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,0,1,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The answer is not 11, because the island must be connected 4-directionally.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    def dfs(i, j):<br>        if i < 0 or i = len(grid) or j < 0 or j = len(grid[0]) or grid[i][j] == 0:<br>            return 0<br>        grid[i][j] = 0<br>        return 1 + dfs(i-1, j) + dfs(i+1, j) + dfs(i, j-1) + dfs(i, j+1)<br><br>    max_area = 0<br>    for i in range(len(grid)):<br>        for j in range(len(grid[0])):<br>            if grid[i][j]:<br>                max_area = max(max_area, dfs(i, j))<br>    return max_area

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1954.txt
> def replace_digits(s: str) - str:<br>    """In a garden represented as an infinite 2D grid, there is an apple tree planted at every integer coordinate. The apple tree planted at an integer coordinate `(i, j)` has `|i| + |j|` apples growing on it.<br><br>You will buy an axis-aligned square plot of land that is centered at `(0, 0)`.<br><br>Given an integer `neededApples`, return _the minimum perimeter of a plot such that at least_ `neededApples` _apples are inside or on the perimeter of that plot_.<br><br>The value of `|x|` is defined as:<br><br>   `x` if `x = 0`<br>   `-x` if `x < 0`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 1<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: A square plot of side length 1 does not contain any apples.<br>However, a square plot of side length 2 has 12 apples inside (as depicted in the image above).<br>The perimeter is 2 \ 4 = 8.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 13<br>Output: 16<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 1000000000<br>Output: 5040<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= neededApples <= 1015`"""<br><br>    s = list(s)<br>    for i in range(1, len(s), 2):<br>        s[i] = chr(ord(s[i - 1]) + int(s[i]))<br>    return ''.join(s)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1411.txt
> class ListNode:<br>    """You have a `grid` of size `n x 3` and you want to paint each cell of the grid with exactly one of the three colors: Red, Yellow, or Green while making sure that no two adjacent cells have the same color (i.e., no two cells that share vertical or horizontal sides have the same color).<br><br>Given `n` the number of rows of the grid, return _the number of ways_ you can paint this `grid`. As the answer may grow large, the answer must be computed modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: There are 12 possible way to paint the grid as shown.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5000<br>Output: 30228214<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == grid.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`"""<br><br>    def __init__(self, val=0, next=None):<br>        self.val = val<br>        self.next = next<br><br>def getDecimalValue(head: ListNode) - int:<br>    num = 0<br>    while head:<br>        num = (num << 1) | head.val<br>        head = head.next<br>    return num

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1001.txt
> def repeatedNTimes(nums):<br>    """There is a 2D `grid` of size `n x n` where each cell of this grid has a lamp that is initially turned off.<br><br>You are given a 2D array of lamp positions `lamps`, where `lamps[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the lamp at `grid[rowi][coli]` is turned on. Even if the same lamp is listed more than once, it is turned on.<br><br>When a lamp is turned on, it illuminates its cell and all other cells in the same row, column, or diagonal.<br><br>You are also given another 2D array `queries`, where `queries[j] = [rowj, colj]`. For the `jth` query, determine whether `grid[rowj][colj]` is illuminated or not. After answering the `jth` query, turn off the lamp at `grid[rowj][colj]` and its 8 adjacent lamps if they exist. A lamp is adjacent if its cell shares either a side or corner with `grid[rowj][colj]`.<br><br>Return _an array of integers_ `ans`_,_ _where_ `ans[j]` _should be_ `1` _if the cell in the_ `jth` _query was illuminated, or_ `0` _if the lamp was not._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,0\]<br>Explanation: We have the initial grid with all lamps turned off. In the above picture we see the grid after turning on the lamp at grid\[0\]\[0\] then turning on the lamp at grid\[4\]\[4\].<br>The 0th query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[1\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is illuminated, so set ans\[0\] = 1. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red square.<br> <br>The 1st query asks if the lamp at grid\[1\]\[0\] is illuminated or not (the blue square). It is not illuminated, so set ans\[1\] = 0. Then, we turn off all lamps in the red rectangle.<br> <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[4,4\]\], queries = \[\[1,1\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 5, lamps = \[\[0,0\],\[0,4\]\], queries = \[\[0,4\],\[0,1\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`<br>   `0 <= lamps.length <= 20000`<br>   `0 <= queries.length <= 20000`<br>   `lamps[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli < n`<br>   `queries[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowj, colj < n`"""<br><br>    hash_map = {}<br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num in hash_map:<br>            return num<br>        else:<br>            hash_map[num] = 1

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1034.txt
> def good_subarrays(nums, k):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid`, and three integers `row`, `col`, and `color`. Each value in the grid represents the color of the grid square at that location.<br><br>Two squares belong to the same connected component if they have the same color and are next to each other in any of the 4 directions.<br><br>The border of a connected component is all the squares in the connected component that are either 4-directionally adjacent to a square not in the component, or on the boundary of the grid (the first or last row or column).<br><br>You should color the border of the connected component that contains the square `grid[row][col]` with `color`.<br><br>Return _the final grid_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1\],\[1,2\]\], row = 0, col = 0, color = 3<br>Output: \[\[3,3\],\[3,2\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,2,2\],\[2,3,2\]\], row = 0, col = 1, color = 3<br>Output: \[\[1,3,3\],\[2,3,3\]\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\]\], row = 1, col = 1, color = 2<br>Output: \[\[2,2,2\],\[2,1,2\],\[2,2,2\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j], color <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= row < m`<br>   `0 <= col < n`"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        frequency = {}<br>        for j in range(i, len(nums)):<br>            frequency[nums[j]] = frequency.get(nums[j], 0) + 1<br>            if len(frequency)  k:<br>                break<br>            if len(frequency) == k:<br>                count += 1<br>    return count


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_695.txt
> def maxAreaOfIsland(grid):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` binary matrix `grid`. An island is a group of `1`'s (representing land) connected 4-directionally (horizontal or vertical.) You may assume all four edges of the grid are surrounded by water.<br><br>The area of an island is the number of cells with a value `1` in the island.<br><br>Return _the maximum area of an island in_ `grid`. If there is no island, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,1,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,1,1,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,0,1,0,0\],\[0,1,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The answer is not 11, because the island must be connected 4-directionally.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    def dfs(i, j):<br>        if i < 0 or i = len(grid) or j < 0 or j = len(grid[0]) or grid[i][j] == 0:<br>            return 0<br>        grid[i][j] = 0<br>        return 1 + dfs(i-1, j) + dfs(i+1, j) + dfs(i, j-1) + dfs(i, j+1)<br><br>    max_area = 0<br>    for i in range(len(grid)):<br>        for j in range(len(grid[0])):<br>            if grid[i][j]:<br>                max_area = max(max_area, dfs(i, j))<br>    return max_area

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 57, leetcode/leetcode_733.txt
> def floodFill(image, sr, sc, newColor):<br>    """An image is represented by an `m x n` integer grid `image` where `image[i][j]` represents the pixel value of the image.<br><br>You are also given three integers `sr`, `sc`, and `color`. You should perform a flood fill on the image starting from the pixel `image[sr][sc]`.<br><br>To perform a flood fill, consider the starting pixel, plus any pixels connected 4-directionally to the starting pixel of the same color as the starting pixel, plus any pixels connected 4-directionally to those pixels (also with the same color), and so on. Replace the color of all of the aforementioned pixels with `color`.<br><br>Return _the modified image after performing the flood fill_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: image = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,0\],\[1,0,1\]\], sr = 1, sc = 1, color = 2<br>Output: \[\[2,2,2\],\[2,2,0\],\[2,0,1\]\]<br>Explanation: From the center of the image with position (sr, sc) = (1, 1) (i.e., the red pixel), all pixels connected by a path of the same color as the starting pixel (i.e., the blue pixels) are colored with the new color.<br>Note the bottom corner is not colored 2, because it is not 4-directionally connected to the starting pixel.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: image = \[\[0,0,0\],\[0,0,0\]\], sr = 0, sc = 0, color = 0<br>Output: \[\[0,0,0\],\[0,0,0\]\]<br>Explanation: The starting pixel is already colored 0, so no changes are made to the image.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == image.length`<br>   `n == image[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `0 <= image[i][j], color < 216`<br>   `0 <= sr < m`<br>   `0 <= sc < n`"""<br><br>    startColor = image[sr][sc]<br>    def fill(sr, sc):<br>        if not (0 <= sr < len(image)) or not (0 <= sc < len(image[0])) or image[sr][sc] != startColor or image[sr][sc] == newColor: <br>            return<br>        image[sr][sc] = newColor<br>        fill(sr - 1, sc)<br>        fill(sr + 1, sc)<br>        fill(sr, sc - 1)<br>        fill(sr, sc + 1)<br>    <br>    fill(sr, sc)<br>    return image

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 4, leetcode/leetcode_1034.txt
> def good_subarrays(nums, k):<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer matrix `grid`, and three integers `row`, `col`, and `color`. Each value in the grid represents the color of the grid square at that location.<br><br>Two squares belong to the same connected component if they have the same color and are next to each other in any of the 4 directions.<br><br>The border of a connected component is all the squares in the connected component that are either 4-directionally adjacent to a square not in the component, or on the boundary of the grid (the first or last row or column).<br><br>You should color the border of the connected component that contains the square `grid[row][col]` with `color`.<br><br>Return _the final grid_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1\],\[1,2\]\], row = 0, col = 0, color = 3<br>Output: \[\[3,3\],\[3,2\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,2,2\],\[2,3,2\]\], row = 0, col = 1, color = 3<br>Output: \[\[1,3,3\],\[2,3,3\]\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\]\], row = 1, col = 1, color = 2<br>Output: \[\[2,2,2\],\[2,1,2\],\[2,2,2\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 50`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j], color <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= row < m`<br>   `0 <= col < n`"""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        frequency = {}<br>        for j in range(i, len(nums)):<br>            frequency[nums[j]] = frequency.get(nums[j], 0) + 1<br>            if len(frequency)  k:<br>                break<br>            if len(frequency) == k:<br>                count += 1<br>    return count
