# Query `24`

## Original Question

*You are given an integer array `nums`. Two players are playing a game with this array: player 1 and player 2.

Player 1 and player 2 take turns, with player 1 starting first. Both players start the game with a score of `0`. At each turn, the player takes one of the numbers from either end of the array (i.e., `nums[0]` or `nums[nums.length - 1]`) which reduces the size of the array by `1`. The player adds the chosen number to their score. The game ends when there are no more elements in the array.

Return `true` if Player 1 can win the game. If the scores of both players are equal, then player 1 is still the winner, and you should also return `true`. You may assume that both players are playing optimally.

Example 1:

Input: nums = \[1,5,2\]
Output: false
Explanation: Initially, player 1 can choose between 1 and 2. 
If he chooses 2 (or 1), then player 2 can choose from 1 (or 2) and 5. If player 2 chooses 5, then player 1 will be left with 1 (or 2). 
So, final score of player 1 is 1 + 2 = 3, and player 2 is 5. 
Hence, player 1 will never be the winner and you need to return false.

Example 2:

Input: nums = \[1,5,233,7\]
Output: true
Explanation: Player 1 first chooses 1. Then player 2 has to choose between 5 and 7. No matter which number player 2 choose, player 1 can choose 233.
Finally, player 1 has more score (234) than player 2 (12), so you need to return True representing player1 can win.

Constraints:

   `1 <= nums.length <= 20`
   `0 <= nums[i] <= 107`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6309
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1927.txt
> def max_ascending_sum(nums):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>You are given a string `num` of even length consisting of digits and `'?'` characters. On each turn, a player will do the following if there is still at least one `'?'` in `num`:<br><br>1.  Choose an index `i` where `num[i] == '?'`.<br>2.  Replace `num[i]` with any digit between `'0'` and `'9'`.<br><br>The game ends when there are no more `'?'` characters in `num`.<br><br>For Bob to win, the sum of the digits in the first half of `num` must be equal to the sum of the digits in the second half. For Alice to win, the sums must not be equal.<br><br>   For example, if the game ended with `num = "243801 "`, then Bob wins because `2+4+3 = 8+0+1`. If the game ended with `num = "243803 "`, then Alice wins because `2+4+3 != 8+0+3`.<br><br>Assuming Alice and Bob play optimally, return `true` _if Alice will win and_ `false` _if Bob will win_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num =  "5023 "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: There are no moves to be made.<br>The sum of the first half is equal to the sum of the second half: 5 + 0 = 2 + 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num =  "25?? "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Alice can replace one of the '?'s with '9' and it will be impossible for Bob to make the sums equal.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: num =  "?3295??? "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It can be proven that Bob will always win. One possible outcome is:<br>- Alice replaces the first '?' with '9'. num =  "93295??? ".<br>- Bob replaces one of the '?' in the right half with '9'. num =  "932959?? ".<br>- Alice replaces one of the '?' in the right half with '2'. num =  "9329592? ".<br>- Bob replaces the last '?' in the right half with '7'. num =  "93295927 ".<br>Bob wins because 9 + 3 + 2 + 9 = 5 + 9 + 2 + 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= num.length <= 105`<br>   `num.length` is even.<br>   `num` consists of only digits and `'?'`."""<br><br>    max_sum = current_sum = nums[0]<br><br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i]  nums[i - 1]:<br>            current_sum += nums[i]<br>        else:<br>            max_sum = max(max_sum, current_sum)<br>            current_sum = nums[i]<br><br>    return max(max_sum, current_sum)

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_464.txt
> def canIWin(maxChoosableInteger, desiredTotal):<br>    """In the "100 game " two players take turns adding, to a running total, any integer from `1` to `10`. The player who first causes the running total to reach or exceed 100 wins.<br><br>What if we change the game so that players cannot re-use integers?<br><br>For example, two players might take turns drawing from a common pool of numbers from 1 to 15 without replacement until they reach a total = 100.<br><br>Given two integers `maxChoosableInteger` and `desiredTotal`, return `true` if the first player to move can force a win, otherwise, return `false`. Assume both players play optimally.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 11<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>No matter which integer the first player choose, the first player will lose.<br>The first player can choose an integer from 1 up to 10.<br>If the first player choose 1, the second player can only choose integers from 2 up to 10.<br>The second player will win by choosing 10 and get a total = 11, which is = desiredTotal.<br>Same with other integers chosen by the first player, the second player will always win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 0<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 1<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= maxChoosableInteger <= 20`<br>   `0 <= desiredTotal <= 300`"""<br><br>    if maxChoosableInteger = desiredTotal: return True<br>    if (maxChoosableInteger  (maxChoosableInteger + 1)) // 2 < desiredTotal: return False<br><br>    memo = {}<br>        <br>    def canWin(state):<br>        if state in memo:<br>            return memo[state]<br>        for i in range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1):<br>            bitCheck = 1 << i<br>            if (state & bitCheck) == 0:<br>                if not canWin(state | bitCheck):<br>                    memo[state] = True<br>                    return True<br>    <br>        memo[state] = False<br>        return False<br><br>    return canWin(0)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1145.txt
> class TreeNode:<br>    """Two players play a turn based game on a binary tree. We are given the `root` of this binary tree, and the number of nodes `n` in the tree. `n` is odd, and each node has a distinct value from `1` to `n`.<br><br>Initially, the first player names a value `x` with `1 <= x <= n`, and the second player names a value `y` with `1 <= y <= n` and `y != x`. The first player colors the node with value `x` red, and the second player colors the node with value `y` blue.<br><br>Then, the players take turns starting with the first player. In each turn, that player chooses a node of their color (red if player 1, blue if player 2) and colors an uncolored neighbor of the chosen node (either the left child, right child, or parent of the chosen node.)<br><br>If (and only if) a player cannot choose such a node in this way, they must pass their turn. If both players pass their turn, the game ends, and the winner is the player that colored more nodes.<br><br>You are the second player. If it is possible to choose such a `y` to ensure you win the game, return `true`. If it is not possible, return `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: root = \[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11\], n = 11, x = 3<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The second player can choose the node with value 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: root = \[1,2,3\], n = 3, x = 1<br>Output: false<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   The number of nodes in the tree is `n`.<br>   `1 <= x <= n <= 100`<br>   `n` is odd.<br>   1 <= Node.val <= n<br>   All the values of the tree are unique."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, val=0, left=None, right=None):<br>        self.val = val<br>        self.left = left<br>        self.right = right<br><br>def btree_game_winning_move(root: TreeNode, n: int, x: int) - bool:<br>    def count_nodes(node: TreeNode) - int:<br>        if not node:<br>            return 0<br>        return count_nodes(node.left) + count_nodes(node.right) + 1<br><br>    def find_node(node: TreeNode, x: int) - TreeNode:<br>        if not node:<br>            return None<br>        if node.val == x:<br>            return node<br>        left_search = find_node(node.left, x)<br>        if left_search:<br>            return left_search<br>        return find_node(node.right, x)<br><br>    x_node = find_node(root, x)<br>    left_nodes = count_nodes(x_node.left)<br>    right_nodes = count_nodes(x_node.right)<br>    parent_nodes = n - left_nodes - right_nodes - 1<br><br>    return max(max(left_nodes, right_nodes), parent_nodes)  n // 2

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1275.txt
> def validateBinaryTreeNodes(n, leftChild, rightChild):<br>    """Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.<br><br>You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "A "<br>Explanation: A wins, they always play first.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output:  "B "<br>Explanation: B wins.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "Draw "<br>Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`<br>   `moves[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`<br>   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.<br>   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe."""<br><br>    parent = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if leftChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[leftChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[leftChild[i]] = i<br>        if rightChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[rightChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[rightChild[i]] = i<br>    <br>    root = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if parent[i] == -1:<br>            if root != -1:<br>                return False<br>            root = i<br><br>    return root != -1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2038.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """There are `n` pieces arranged in a line, and each piece is colored either by `'A'` or by `'B'`. You are given a string `colors` of length `n` where `colors[i]` is the color of the `ith` piece.<br><br>Alice and Bob are playing a game where they take alternating turns removing pieces from the line. In this game, Alice moves first.<br><br>   Alice is only allowed to remove a piece colored `'A'` if both its neighbors are also colored `'A'`. She is not allowed to remove pieces that are colored `'B'`.<br>   Bob is only allowed to remove a piece colored `'B'` if both its neighbors are also colored `'B'`. He is not allowed to remove pieces that are colored `'A'`.<br>   Alice and Bob cannot remove pieces from the edge of the line.<br>   If a player cannot make a move on their turn, that player loses and the other player wins.<br><br>Assuming Alice and Bob play optimally, return `true` _if Alice wins, or return_ `false` _if Bob wins_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: colors =  "AAABABB "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation:<br>AAABABB - AABABB<br>Alice moves first.<br>She removes the second 'A' from the left since that is the only 'A' whose neighbors are both 'A'.<br><br>Now it's Bob's turn.<br>Bob cannot make a move on his turn since there are no 'B's whose neighbors are both 'B'.<br>Thus, Alice wins, so return true.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: colors =  "AA "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>Alice has her turn first.<br>There are only two 'A's and both are on the edge of the line, so she cannot move on her turn.<br>Thus, Bob wins, so return false.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: colors =  "ABBBBBBBAAA "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>ABBBBBBBAAA - ABBBBBBBAA<br>Alice moves first.<br>Her only option is to remove the second to last 'A' from the right.<br><br>ABBBBBBBAA - ABBBBBBAA<br>Next is Bob's turn.<br>He has many options for which 'B' piece to remove. He can pick any.<br><br>On Alice's second turn, she has no more pieces that she can remove.<br>Thus, Bob wins, so return false.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= colors.length <= 105`<br>   `colors` consists of only the letters `'A'` and `'B'`"""<br><br><br>def nearest_exit(maze, entrance):<br>    m, n = len(maze), len(maze[0])<br>    directions = [[0, 1], [1, 0], [0, -1], [-1, 0]]<br>    q = deque()<br>    maze[entrance[0]][entrance[1]] = '+'<br>    q.append((entrance[0], entrance[1]))<br>    steps = 0<br><br>    while q:<br>        size = len(q)<br>        for _ in range(size):<br>            x, y = q.popleft()<br>            if (x == 0 or x == m - 1 or y == 0 or y == n - 1) and (x != entrance[0] or y != entrance[1]):<br>                return steps<br><br>            for dir in directions:<br>                xx, yy = x + dir[0], y + dir[1]<br>                if 0 <= xx < m and 0 <= yy < n and maze[xx][yy] == '.':<br>                    maze[xx][yy] = '+'<br>                    q.append((xx, yy))<br>        steps += 1<br><br>    return -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_464.txt
> def canIWin(maxChoosableInteger, desiredTotal):<br>    """In the "100 game " two players take turns adding, to a running total, any integer from `1` to `10`. The player who first causes the running total to reach or exceed 100 wins.<br><br>What if we change the game so that players cannot re-use integers?<br><br>For example, two players might take turns drawing from a common pool of numbers from 1 to 15 without replacement until they reach a total = 100.<br><br>Given two integers `maxChoosableInteger` and `desiredTotal`, return `true` if the first player to move can force a win, otherwise, return `false`. Assume both players play optimally.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 11<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>No matter which integer the first player choose, the first player will lose.<br>The first player can choose an integer from 1 up to 10.<br>If the first player choose 1, the second player can only choose integers from 2 up to 10.<br>The second player will win by choosing 10 and get a total = 11, which is = desiredTotal.<br>Same with other integers chosen by the first player, the second player will always win.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 0<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: maxChoosableInteger = 10, desiredTotal = 1<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= maxChoosableInteger <= 20`<br>   `0 <= desiredTotal <= 300`"""<br><br>    if maxChoosableInteger = desiredTotal: return True<br>    if (maxChoosableInteger  (maxChoosableInteger + 1)) // 2 < desiredTotal: return False<br><br>    memo = {}<br>        <br>    def canWin(state):<br>        if state in memo:<br>            return memo[state]<br>        for i in range(1, maxChoosableInteger + 1):<br>            bitCheck = 1 << i<br>            if (state & bitCheck) == 0:<br>                if not canWin(state | bitCheck):<br>                    memo[state] = True<br>                    return True<br>    <br>        memo[state] = False<br>        return False<br><br>    return canWin(0)
