# Query `25`

## Original Question

*Suppose LeetCode will start its IPO soon. In order to sell a good price of its shares to Venture Capital, LeetCode would like to work on some projects to increase its capital before the IPO. Since it has limited resources, it can only finish at most `k` distinct projects before the IPO. Help LeetCode design the best way to maximize its total capital after finishing at most `k` distinct projects.

You are given `n` projects where the `ith` project has a pure profit `profits[i]` and a minimum capital of `capital[i]` is needed to start it.

Initially, you have `w` capital. When you finish a project, you will obtain its pure profit and the profit will be added to your total capital.

Pick a list of at most `k` distinct projects from given projects to maximize your final capital, and return _the final maximized capital_.

The answer is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit signed integer.

Example 1:

Input: k = 2, w = 0, profits = \[1,2,3\], capital = \[0,1,1\]
Output: 4
Explanation: Since your initial capital is 0, you can only start the project indexed 0.
After finishing it you will obtain profit 1 and your capital becomes 1.
With capital 1, you can either start the project indexed 1 or the project indexed 2.
Since you can choose at most 2 projects, you need to finish the project indexed 2 to get the maximum capital.
Therefore, output the final maximized capital, which is 0 + 1 + 3 = 4.

Example 2:

Input: k = 3, w = 0, profits = \[1,2,3\], capital = \[0,1,2\]
Output: 6

Constraints:

   `1 <= k <= 105`
   `0 <= w <= 109`
   `n == profits.length`
   `n == capital.length`
   `1 <= n <= 105`
   `0 <= profits[i] <= 104`
   `0 <= capital[i] <= 109`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0082
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_121.txt
> def maxProfit(prices):<br>    """You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.<br><br>You want to maximize your profit by choosing a single day to buy one stock and choosing a different day in the future to sell that stock.<br><br>Return _the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction_. If you cannot achieve any profit, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: prices = \[7,1,5,3,6,4\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.<br>Note that buying on day 2 and selling on day 1 is not allowed because you must buy before you sell.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: prices = \[7,6,4,3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: In this case, no transactions are done and the max profit = 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= prices[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    minPrice = float('inf')<br>    maxProfit = 0<br>    for price in prices:<br>        minPrice = min(minPrice, price)<br>        maxProfit = max(maxProfit, price - minPrice)<br>    return maxProfit

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_123.txt
> def maxProfit(prices):<br>    """You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.<br><br>Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete at most two transactions.<br><br>Note: You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: prices = \[3,3,5,0,0,3,1,4\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: Buy on day 4 (price = 0) and sell on day 6 (price = 3), profit = 3-0 = 3.<br>Then buy on day 7 (price = 1) and sell on day 8 (price = 4), profit = 4-1 = 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: prices = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: Buy on day 1 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 5), profit = 5-1 = 4.<br>Note that you cannot buy on day 1, buy on day 2 and sell them later, as you are engaging multiple transactions at the same time. You must sell before buying again.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: prices = \[7,6,4,3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: In this case, no transaction is done, i.e. max profit = 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= prices[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    buy1, buy2 = float("inf"), float("inf")<br>    profit1, profit2 = 0, 0<br><br>    for price in prices:<br>        buy1 = min(buy1, price)<br>        profit1 = max(profit1, price - buy1)<br>        buy2 = min(buy2, price - profit1)<br>        profit2 = max(profit2, price - buy2)<br><br>    return profit2

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_188.txt
> def maxProfit(k, prices):<br>    """You are given an integer array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day, and an integer `k`.<br><br>Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete at most `k` transactions: i.e. you may buy at most `k` times and sell at most `k` times.<br><br>Note: You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: k = 2, prices = \[2,4,1\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Buy on day 1 (price = 2) and sell on day 2 (price = 4), profit = 4-2 = 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: k = 2, prices = \[3,2,6,5,0,3\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 2) and sell on day 3 (price = 6), profit = 6-2 = 4. Then buy on day 5 (price = 0) and sell on day 6 (price = 3), profit = 3-0 = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= 100`<br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= prices[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    n = len(prices)<br>    if k  n // 2:<br>        return sum(max(prices[i] - prices[i - 1], 0) for i in range(1, n))<br><br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(k + 1)]<br>    for i in range(1, k + 1):<br>        max_diff = -prices[0]<br>        for j in range(1, n):<br>            dp[i][j] = max(dp[i][j - 1], prices[j] + max_diff)<br>            max_diff = max(max_diff, dp[i - 1][j] - prices[j])<br>    return dp[k][n - 1]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_309.txt
> def maxProfit(prices):<br>    """You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.<br><br>Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete as many transactions as you like (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock multiple times) with the following restrictions:<br><br>   After you sell your stock, you cannot buy stock on the next day (i.e., cooldown one day).<br><br>Note: You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: prices = \[1,2,3,0,2\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: transactions = \[buy, sell, cooldown, buy, sell\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: prices = \[1\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 5000`<br>   `0 <= prices[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    profit = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(prices)):<br>        profit += max(prices[i] - prices[i - 1], 0)<br>    return profit

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1599.txt
> def minOperationsMaxProfit(customers, boardingCost, runningCost):<br>    """You are the operator of a Centennial Wheel that has four gondolas, and each gondola has room for up to four people. You have the ability to rotate the gondolas counterclockwise, which costs you `runningCost` dollars.<br><br>You are given an array `customers` of length `n` where `customers[i]` is the number of new customers arriving just before the `ith` rotation (0-indexed). This means you must rotate the wheel `i` times before the `customers[i]` customers arrive. You cannot make customers wait if there is room in the gondola. Each customer pays `boardingCost` dollars when they board on the gondola closest to the ground and will exit once that gondola reaches the ground again.<br><br>You can stop the wheel at any time, including before serving all customers. If you decide to stop serving customers, all subsequent rotations are free in order to get all the customers down safely. Note that if there are currently more than four customers waiting at the wheel, only four will board the gondola, and the rest will wait for the next rotation.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of rotations you need to perform to maximize your profit._ If there is no scenario where the profit is positive, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: customers = \[8,3\], boardingCost = 5, runningCost = 6<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The numbers written on the gondolas are the number of people currently there.<br>1. 8 customers arrive, 4 board and 4 wait for the next gondola, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 4 \ $5 - 1 \ $6 = $14.<br>2. 3 customers arrive, the 4 waiting board the wheel and the other 3 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 8 \ $5 - 2 \ $6 = $28.<br>3. The final 3 customers board the gondola, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 11 \ $5 - 3 \ $6 = $37.<br>The highest profit was $37 after rotating the wheel 3 times.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: customers = \[10,9,6\], boardingCost = 6, runningCost = 4<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation:<br>1. 10 customers arrive, 4 board and 6 wait for the next gondola, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 4 \ $6 - 1 \ $4 = $20.<br>2. 9 customers arrive, 4 board and 11 wait (2 originally waiting, 9 newly waiting), the wheel rotates. Current profit is 8 \ $6 - 2 \ $4 = $40.<br>3. The final 6 customers arrive, 4 board and 13 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 12 \ $6 - 3 \ $4 = $60.<br>4. 4 board and 9 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 16 \ $6 - 4 \ $4 = $80.<br>5. 4 board and 5 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 20 \ $6 - 5 \ $4 = $100.<br>6. 4 board and 1 waits, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 24 \ $6 - 6 \ $4 = $120.<br>7. 1 boards, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 25 \ $6 - 7 \ $4 = $122.<br>The highest profit was $122 after rotating the wheel 7 times.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: customers = \[3,4,0,5,1\], boardingCost = 1, runningCost = 92<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>1. 3 customers arrive, 3 board and 0 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 3 \ $1 - 1 \ $92 = -$89.<br>2. 4 customers arrive, 4 board and 0 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 7 \ $1 - 2 \ $92 = -$177.<br>3. 0 customers arrive, 0 board and 0 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 7 \ $1 - 3 \ $92 = -$269.<br>4. 5 customers arrive, 4 board and 1 waits, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 11 \ $1 - 4 \ $92 = -$357.<br>5. 1 customer arrives, 2 board and 0 wait, the wheel rotates. Current profit is 13 \ $1 - 5 \ $92 = -$447.<br>The profit was never positive, so return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == customers.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= customers[i] <= 50`<br>   `1 <= boardingCost, runningCost <= 100`"""<br><br>    waiting = 0<br>    profit = 0<br>    max_profit = 0<br>    rotations = 0<br>    result = -1<br><br>    for i in range(len(customers) + sum(customers)):<br>        if i < len(customers):<br>            waiting += customers[i]<br>        boarding = min(waiting, 4)<br>        waiting -= boarding<br>        profit += boarding  boardingCost - runningCost<br><br>        if profit  max_profit:<br>            max_profit = profit<br>            result = rotations + 1<br>        rotations += 1<br>    <br>    return result


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2542.txt
> def maxScore(nums1, nums2, k):<br>    """You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2` of equal length `n` and a positive integer `k`. You must choose a subsequence of indices from `nums1` of length `k`.<br><br>For chosen indices `i0`, `i1`, ..., `ik - 1`, your score is defined as:<br><br>   The sum of the selected elements from `nums1` multiplied with the minimum of the selected elements from `nums2`.<br>   It can defined simply as: `(nums1[i0] + nums1[i1] +...+ nums1[ik - 1])  min(nums2[i0] , nums2[i1], ... ,nums2[ik - 1])`.<br><br>Return _the maximum possible score._<br><br>A subsequence of indices of an array is a set that can be derived from the set `{0, 1, ..., n-1}` by deleting some or no elements.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[1,3,3,2\], nums2 = \[2,1,3,4\], k = 3<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: <br>The four possible subsequence scores are:<br>- We choose the indices 0, 1, and 2 with score = (1+3+3) \ min(2,1,3) = 7.<br>- We choose the indices 0, 1, and 3 with score = (1+3+2) \ min(2,1,4) = 6. <br>- We choose the indices 0, 2, and 3 with score = (1+3+2) \ min(2,3,4) = 12. <br>- We choose the indices 1, 2, and 3 with score = (3+3+2) \ min(1,3,4) = 8.<br>Therefore, we return the max score, which is 12.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[4,2,3,1,1\], nums2 = \[7,5,10,9,6\], k = 1<br>Output: 30<br>Explanation: <br>Choosing index 2 is optimal: nums1\[2\] \ nums2\[2\] = 3 \ 10 = 30 is the maximum possible score.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums1.length == nums2.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums1)<br>    res = 0<br>    sum_n1 = 0<br>    min_n2 = nums2[0]<br>    i, j = 0, 0<br>    while j < n:<br>        sum_n1 += nums1[j]<br>        min_n2 = min(min_n2, nums2[j])<br>        if j - i + 1  k:<br>            sum_n1 -= nums1[i]<br>            i += 1<br>        if j + 1 = k:<br>            res = max(res, sum_n1  min_n2)<br>        j += 1<br>    return res
