# Query `27`

## Original Question

*You are given an array of `n` pairs `pairs` where `pairs[i] = [lefti, righti]` and `lefti < righti`.

A pair `p2 = [c, d]` follows a pair `p1 = [a, b]` if `b < c`. A chain of pairs can be formed in this fashion.

Return _the length longest chain which can be formed_.

You do not need to use up all the given intervals. You can select pairs in any order.

Example 1:

Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]
Output: 2
Explanation: The longest chain is \[1,2\] -> \[3,4\].

Example 2:

Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[7,8\],\[4,5\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation: The longest chain is \[1,2\] -> \[4,5\] -> \[7,8\].

Constraints:

   `n == pairs.length`
   `1 <= n <= 1000`
   `-1000 <= lefti < righti <= 1000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0133
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0981
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0067
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1310.txt
> def water_plants(plants, capacity):<br>    """You are given an array `arr` of positive integers. You are also given the array `queries` where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]`.<br><br>For each query `i` compute the XOR of elements from `lefti` to `righti` (that is, `arr[lefti] XOR arr[lefti + 1] XOR ... XOR arr[righti]` ).<br><br>Return an array `answer` where `answer[i]` is the answer to the `ith` query.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,3,4,8\], queries = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[0,3\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,7,14,8\] <br>Explanation: <br>The binary representation of the elements in the array are:<br>1 = 0001 <br>3 = 0011 <br>4 = 0100 <br>8 = 1000 <br>The XOR values for queries are:<br>\[0,1\] = 1 xor 3 = 2 <br>\[1,2\] = 3 xor 4 = 7 <br>\[0,3\] = 1 xor 3 xor 4 xor 8 = 14 <br>\[3,3\] = 8<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[4,8,2,10\], queries = \[\[2,3\],\[1,3\],\[0,0\],\[0,3\]\]<br>Output: \[8,0,4,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length, queries.length <= 3  104`<br>   `1 <= arr[i] <= 109`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= lefti <= righti < arr.length`"""<br><br>    steps = 0<br>    water_left = 0<br><br>    for i, plant in enumerate(plants):<br>        if water_left < plant:<br>            steps += 2  i + 1  # Refill the watering can<br>            water_left = capacity<br>        water_left -= plant<br>        steps += 1  # Move to the next plant<br><br>    return steps

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2392.txt
> def build_matrix(k: int, row_conditions: List[List[int]], col_conditions: List[List[int]]) - List[List[int]]:<br>    """You are given a positive integer `k`. You are also given:<br><br>   a 2D integer array `rowConditions` of size `n` where `rowConditions[i] = [abovei, belowi]`, and<br>   a 2D integer array `colConditions` of size `m` where `colConditions[i] = [lefti, righti]`.<br><br>The two arrays contain integers from `1` to `k`.<br><br>You have to build a `k x k` matrix that contains each of the numbers from `1` to `k` exactly once. The remaining cells should have the value `0`.<br><br>The matrix should also satisfy the following conditions:<br><br>   The number `abovei` should appear in a row that is strictly above the row at which the number `belowi` appears for all `i` from `0` to `n - 1`.<br>   The number `lefti` should appear in a column that is strictly left of the column at which the number `righti` appears for all `i` from `0` to `m - 1`.<br><br>Return _any matrix that satisfies the conditions_. If no answer exists, return an empty matrix.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: k = 3, rowConditions = \[\[1,2\],\[3,2\]\], colConditions = \[\[2,1\],\[3,2\]\]<br>Output: \[\[3,0,0\],\[0,0,1\],\[0,2,0\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a valid example of a matrix that satisfies all the conditions.<br>The row conditions are the following:<br>- Number 1 is in row 1, and number 2 is in row 2, so 1 is above 2 in the matrix.<br>- Number 3 is in row 0, and number 2 is in row 2, so 3 is above 2 in the matrix.<br>The column conditions are the following:<br>- Number 2 is in column 1, and number 1 is in column 2, so 2 is left of 1 in the matrix.<br>- Number 3 is in column 0, and number 2 is in column 1, so 3 is left of 2 in the matrix.<br>Note that there may be multiple correct answers.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: k = 3, rowConditions = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,1\],\[2,3\]\], colConditions = \[\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation: From the first two conditions, 3 has to be below 1 but the third conditions needs 3 to be above 1 to be satisfied.<br>No matrix can satisfy all the conditions, so we return the empty matrix.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= k <= 400`<br>   `1 <= rowConditions.length, colConditions.length <= 104`<br>   `rowConditions[i].length == colConditions[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= abovei, belowi, lefti, righti <= k`<br>   `abovei != belowi`<br>   `lefti != righti`"""<br><br>    row, col = [0]  (k + 1), [0]  (k + 1)<br>    for condition in row_conditions:<br>        if row[condition[0]] = row[condition[1]]:<br>            return []<br>        row[condition[1]] = row[condition[0]] + 1<br>    for condition in col_conditions:<br>        if col[condition[0]] = col[condition[1]]:<br>            return []<br>        col[condition[1]] = col[condition[0]] + 1<br>    matrix = [[0]  k for _ in range(k)]<br>    for i in range(1, k + 1):<br>        matrix[row[i]][col[i]] = i<br>    return matrix

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2564.txt
> from math import log2<br>    """You are given a binary string `s`, and a 2D integer array `queries` where `queries[i] = [firsti, secondi]`.<br><br>For the `ith` query, find the shortest substring of `s` whose decimal value, `val`, yields `secondi` when bitwise XORed with `firsti`. In other words, `val ^ firsti == secondi`.<br><br>The answer to the `ith` query is the endpoints (0-indexed) of the substring `[lefti, righti]` or `[-1, -1]` if no such substring exists. If there are multiple answers, choose the one with the minimum `lefti`.<br><br>_Return an array_ `ans` _where_ `ans[i] = [lefti, righti]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>A substring is a contiguous non-empty sequence of characters within a string.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "101101 ", queries = \[\[0,5\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Explanation: For the first query the substring in range `[0,2]` is  "101 " which has a decimal value of `5`, and `5 ^ 0 = 5`, hence the answer to the first query is `[0,2]`. In the second query, the substring in range `[2,3]` is  "11 ", and has a decimal value of 3, and 3 `^ 1 = 2`. So, `[2,3]` is returned for the second query. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "0101 ", queries = \[\[12,8\]\]<br>Output: \[\[-1,-1\]\]<br>Explanation: In this example there is no substring that answers the query, hence `[-1,-1] is returned`.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "1 ", queries = \[\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Explanation: For this example, the substring in range `[0,0]` has a decimal value of `1`, and `1 ^ 4 = 5`. So, the answer is `[0,0]`.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 104`<br>   `s[i]` is either `'0'` or `'1'`.<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= firsti, secondi <= 109`"""<br><br>def shortestSubstringQueries(s, queries):<br>    n = len(s)<br>    dp = {}<br>    val = 0<br>    mask = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        mask |= 1 << int(s[i])<br>        val = (val << 1) | int(s[i])<br><br>        for j in range(10):<br>            if i + 1 - (1 << j) = 0:<br>                newVal = val & ((1 << (j + 1)) - 1)<br>                if newVal not in dp:<br>                    dp[newVal] = i + 1 - (1 << j)<br><br>    ans = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        target = query[0] ^ query[1]<br>        if target in dp:<br>            ans.append([dp[target], dp[target] + int(log2(target))])<br>        else:<br>            ans.append([-1, -1])<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2055.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is a long table with a line of plates and candles arranged on top of it. You are given a 0-indexed string `s` consisting of characters `''` and `'|'` only, where a `''` represents a plate and a `'|'` represents a candle.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `queries` where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]` denotes the substring `s[lefti...righti]` (inclusive). For each query, you need to find the number of plates between candles that are in the substring. A plate is considered between candles if there is at least one candle to its left and at least one candle to its right in the substring.<br><br>   For example, `s = "||||| "`, and a query `[3, 8]` denotes the substring `"||| "`. The number of plates between candles in this substring is `2`, as each of the two plates has at least one candle in the substring to its left and right.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\|\\|\\\| ", queries = \[\[2,5\],\[5,9\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has two plates between candles.<br>- queries\[1\] has three plates between candles.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\\|\\|\\\\\|\\||\\|\ ", queries = \[\[1,17\],\[4,5\],\[14,17\],\[5,11\],\[15,16\]\]<br>Output: \[9,0,0,0,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has nine plates between candles.<br>- The other queries have zero plates between candles.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= s.length <= 105`<br>   `s` consists of `''` and `'|'` characters.<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= lefti <= righti < s.length`"""<br><br><br>def splitPainting(segments):<br>    changes = defaultdict(int)<br>    for start, end, color in segments:<br>        changes[start] += color<br>        changes[end] -= color<br><br>    result = []<br>    start, color_sum = 0, 0<br>    for key in sorted(changes.keys()):<br>        if start != key:<br>            if color_sum:<br>                result.append([start, key, color_sum])<br>            start = key<br>        color_sum += changes[key]<br><br>    return result

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_218.txt
> from sortedcontainers import SortedList<br>    """A city's skyline is the outer contour of the silhouette formed by all the buildings in that city when viewed from a distance. Given the locations and heights of all the buildings, return _the skyline formed by these buildings collectively_.<br><br>The geometric information of each building is given in the array `buildings` where `buildings[i] = [lefti, righti, heighti]`:<br><br>   `lefti` is the x coordinate of the left edge of the `ith` building.<br>   `righti` is the x coordinate of the right edge of the `ith` building.<br>   `heighti` is the height of the `ith` building.<br><br>You may assume all buildings are perfect rectangles grounded on an absolutely flat surface at height `0`.<br><br>The skyline should be represented as a list of "key points " sorted by their x-coordinate in the form `[[x1,y1],[x2,y2],...]`. Each key point is the left endpoint of some horizontal segment in the skyline except the last point in the list, which always has a y-coordinate `0` and is used to mark the skyline's termination where the rightmost building ends. Any ground between the leftmost and rightmost buildings should be part of the skyline's contour.<br><br>Note: There must be no consecutive horizontal lines of equal height in the output skyline. For instance, `[...,[2 3],[4 5],[7 5],[11 5],[12 7],...]` is not acceptable; the three lines of height 5 should be merged into one in the final output as such: `[...,[2 3],[4 5],[12 7],...]`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: buildings = \[\[2,9,10\],\[3,7,15\],\[5,12,12\],\[15,20,10\],\[19,24,8\]\]<br>Output: \[\[2,10\],\[3,15\],\[7,12\],\[12,0\],\[15,10\],\[20,8\],\[24,0\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>Figure A shows the buildings of the input.<br>Figure B shows the skyline formed by those buildings. The red points in figure B represent the key points in the output list.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: buildings = \[\[0,2,3\],\[2,5,3\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,3\],\[5,0\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= buildings.length <= 104`<br>   `0 <= lefti < righti <= 231 - 1`<br>   `1 <= heighti <= 231 - 1`<br>   `buildings` is sorted by `lefti` in non-decreasing order."""<br><br><br>def getSkyline(buildings):<br>    points = []<br>    for l, r, h in buildings:<br>        points.append((l, -h))<br>        points.append((r, h))<br>    points.sort()<br>    heights = SortedList([0])<br>    prev = 0<br>    skyline = []<br>    for x, h in points:<br>        if h < 0:<br>            heights.add(-h)<br>        else:<br>            heights.remove(h)<br>        cur = heights[-1]<br>        if cur != prev:<br>            skyline.append([x, cur])<br>            prev = cur<br>    return skyline


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 74, leetcode/leetcode_300.txt
> def lengthOfLIS(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the length of the longest strictly increasing_ _subsequence_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,9,2,5,3,7,101,18\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The longest increasing subsequence is \[2,3,7,101\], therefore the length is 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,1,0,3,2,3\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 2500`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br><br>Follow up: Can you come up with an algorithm that runs in `O(n log(n))` time complexity?"""<br><br>    dp = [1]  len(nums)<br>    max_length = 1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(i):<br>            if nums[i]  nums[j]:<br>                dp[i] = max(dp[i], dp[j] + 1)<br>        max_length = max(max_length, dp[i])<br>    return max_length

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_491.txt
> from typing import List<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _all the different possible non-decreasing subsequences of the given array with at least two elements_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,6,7,7\]<br>Output: \[\[4,6\],\[4,6,7\],\[4,6,7,7\],\[4,7\],\[4,7,7\],\[6,7\],\[6,7,7\],\[7,7\]\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,4,3,2,1\]<br>Output: \[\[4,4\]\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 15`<br>   `-100 <= nums[i] <= 100`"""<br><br><br>def findSubsequences(nums: List[int]) - List[List[int]]:<br>    res = set()<br>    dfs(nums, 0, [], res)<br>    return list(res)<br><br>def dfs(nums, start, path, res):<br>    if len(path) = 2:<br>        res.add(tuple(path))<br>    for i in range(start, len(nums)):<br>        if path and path[-1]  nums[i]:<br>            continue<br>        dfs(nums, i + 1, path + [nums[i]], res)
