# Query `31`

## Original Question

*There is a room with `n` bulbs labeled from `1` to `n` that all are turned on initially, and four buttons on the wall. Each of the four buttons has a different functionality where:

   Button 1: Flips the status of all the bulbs.
   Button 2: Flips the status of all the bulbs with even labels (i.e., `2, 4, ...`).
   Button 3: Flips the status of all the bulbs with odd labels (i.e., `1, 3, ...`).
   Button 4: Flips the status of all the bulbs with a label `j = 3k + 1` where `k = 0, 1, 2, ...` (i.e., `1, 4, 7, 10, ...`).

You must make exactly `presses` button presses in total. For each press, you may pick any of the four buttons to press.

Given the two integers `n` and `presses`, return _the number of different possible statuses after performing all_ `presses` _button presses_.

Example 1:

Input: n = 1, presses = 1
Output: 2
Explanation: Status can be:
- \[off\] by pressing button 1
- \[on\] by pressing button 2

Example 2:

Input: n = 2, presses = 1
Output: 3
Explanation: Status can be:
- \[off, off\] by pressing button 1
- \[on, off\] by pressing button 2
- \[off, on\] by pressing button 3

Example 3:

Input: n = 3, presses = 1
Output: 4
Explanation: Status can be:
- \[off, off, off\] by pressing button 1
- \[off, on, off\] by pressing button 2
- \[on, off, on\] by pressing button 3
- \[off, on, on\] by pressing button 4

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 1000`
   `0 <= presses <= 1000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_25: 0.7842
ndcg_cut_50: 0.7842
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7842
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5909
map_cut_50: 0.5909
map_cut_100: 0.5909
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_319.txt
> def bulbSwitch(n):<br>    """There are `n` bulbs that are initially off. You first turn on all the bulbs, then you turn off every second bulb.<br><br>On the third round, you toggle every third bulb (turning on if it's off or turning off if it's on). For the `ith` round, you toggle every `i` bulb. For the `nth` round, you only toggle the last bulb.<br><br>Return _the number of bulbs that are on after `n` rounds_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: At first, the three bulbs are \[off, off, off\].<br>After the first round, the three bulbs are \[on, on, on\].<br>After the second round, the three bulbs are \[on, off, on\].<br>After the third round, the three bulbs are \[on, off, off\]. <br>So you should return 1 because there is only one bulb is on.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 0<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    return int(n0.5)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1739.txt
> def check_palindrome_formation(a: str, b: str) - bool:<br>    """You have a cubic storeroom where the width, length, and height of the room are all equal to `n` units. You are asked to place `n` boxes in this room where each box is a cube of unit side length. There are however some rules to placing the boxes:<br><br>   You can place the boxes anywhere on the floor.<br>   If box `x` is placed on top of the box `y`, then each side of the four vertical sides of the box `y` must either be adjacent to another box or to a wall.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return _the minimum possible number of boxes touching the floor._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the three boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the left side.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the four boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the left side.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 10<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The figure above is for the placement of the ten boxes.<br>These boxes are placed in the corner of the room, where the corner is on the back side.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    def is_palindrome(s: str, left: int, right: int) - bool:<br>        while left < right:<br>            if s[left] != s[right]:<br>                return False<br>            left += 1<br>            right -= 1<br>        return True<br><br>    i, j = 0, len(a) - 1<br>    while i < j:<br>        if a[i] != b[j]:<br>            return is_palindrome(a, i, j) or is_palindrome(b, i, j)<br>        i += 1<br>        j -= 1<br>    return True

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1997.txt
> def firstDayBeenInAllRooms(nextVisit):<br>    """There are `n` rooms you need to visit, labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. Each day is labeled, starting from `0`. You will go in and visit one room a day.<br><br>Initially on day `0`, you visit room `0`. The order you visit the rooms for the coming days is determined by the following rules and a given 0-indexed array `nextVisit` of length `n`:<br><br>   Assuming that on a day, you visit room `i`,<br>   if you have been in room `i` an odd number of times (including the current visit), on the next day you will visit a room with a lower or equal room number specified by `nextVisit[i]` where `0 <= nextVisit[i] <= i`;<br>   if you have been in room `i` an even number of times (including the current visit), on the next day you will visit room `(i + 1) mod n`.<br><br>Return _the label of the first day where you have been in all the rooms_. It can be shown that such a day exists. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nextVisit = \[0,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- On day 0, you visit room 0. The total times you have been in room 0 is 1, which is odd.<br>  On the next day you will visit room nextVisit\[0\] = 0<br>- On day 1, you visit room 0, The total times you have been in room 0 is 2, which is even.<br>  On the next day you will visit room (0 + 1) mod 2 = 1<br>- On day 2, you visit room 1. This is the first day where you have been in all the rooms.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nextVisit = \[0,0,2\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:<br>Your room visiting order for each day is: \[0,0,1,0,0,1,2,...\].<br>Day 6 is the first day where you have been in all the rooms.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nextVisit = \[0,1,2,0\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:<br>Your room visiting order for each day is: \[0,0,1,1,2,2,3,...\].<br>Day 6 is the first day where you have been in all the rooms.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nextVisit.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nextVisit[i] <= i`"""<br><br>    n = len(nextVisit)<br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    dp = [0]  n<br><br>    for i in range(1, n):<br>        dp[i] = (dp[i - 1]  2 - dp[nextVisit[i - 1]] + 2) % MOD<br><br>    return dp[n - 1]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2257.txt
> def earliest_blooming_day(plant_time, grow_time):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` representing a 0-indexed `m x n` grid. You are also given two 2D integer arrays `guards` and `walls` where `guards[i] = [rowi, coli]` and `walls[j] = [rowj, colj]` represent the positions of the `ith` guard and `jth` wall respectively.<br><br>A guard can see every cell in the four cardinal directions (north, east, south, or west) starting from their position unless obstructed by a wall or another guard. A cell is guarded if there is at least one guard that can see it.<br><br>Return _the number of unoccupied cells that are not guarded._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, guards = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,3\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[2,2\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: The guarded and unguarded cells are shown in red and green respectively in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 7 unguarded cells, so we return 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 3, guards = \[\[1,1\]\], walls = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[2,1\],\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The unguarded cells are shown in green in the above diagram.<br>There are a total of 4 unguarded cells, so we return 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= guards.length, walls.length <= 5  104`<br>   `2 <= guards.length + walls.length <= m  n`<br>   `guards[i].length == walls[j].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, rowj < m`<br>   `0 <= coli, colj < n`<br>   All the positions in `guards` and `walls` are unique."""<br><br>    bloom_time = [plant_time[i] + grow_time[i] for i in range(len(plant_time))]<br>    bloom_time.sort()<br>    earliest_day = 0<br>    for i in bloom_time:<br>        earliest_day = max(earliest_day, i)<br>        earliest_day += 1<br>    return earliest_day

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1298.txt
> def reverseParentheses(s: str) - str:<br>    """You have `n` boxes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given four arrays: `status`, `candies`, `keys`, and `containedBoxes` where:<br><br>   `status[i]` is `1` if the `ith` box is open and `0` if the `ith` box is closed,<br>   `candies[i]` is the number of candies in the `ith` box,<br>   `keys[i]` is a list of the labels of the boxes you can open after opening the `ith` box.<br>   `containedBoxes[i]` is a list of the boxes you found inside the `ith` box.<br><br>You are given an integer array `initialBoxes` that contains the labels of the boxes you initially have. You can take all the candies in any open box and you can use the keys in it to open new boxes and you also can use the boxes you find in it.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of candies you can get following the rules above_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: status = \[1,0,1,0\], candies = \[7,5,4,100\], keys = \[\[\],\[\],\[1\],\[\]\], containedBoxes = \[\[1,2\],\[3\],\[\],\[\]\], initialBoxes = \[0\]<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: You will be initially given box 0. You will find 7 candies in it and boxes 1 and 2.<br>Box 1 is closed and you do not have a key for it so you will open box 2. You will find 4 candies and a key to box 1 in box 2.<br>In box 1, you will find 5 candies and box 3 but you will not find a key to box 3 so box 3 will remain closed.<br>Total number of candies collected = 7 + 4 + 5 = 16 candy.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: status = \[1,0,0,0,0,0\], candies = \[1,1,1,1,1,1\], keys = \[\[1,2,3,4,5\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\]\], containedBoxes = \[\[1,2,3,4,5\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\]\], initialBoxes = \[0\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: You have initially box 0. Opening it you can find boxes 1,2,3,4 and 5 and their keys.<br>The total number of candies will be 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == status.length == candies.length == keys.length == containedBoxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `status[i]` is either `0` or `1`.<br>   `1 <= candies[i] <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= keys[i].length <= n`<br>   `0 <= keys[i][j] < n`<br>   All values of `keys[i]` are unique.<br>   `0 <= containedBoxes[i].length <= n`<br>   `0 <= containedBoxes[i][j] < n`<br>   All values of `containedBoxes[i]` are unique.<br>   Each box is contained in one box at most.<br>   `0 <= initialBoxes.length <= n`<br>   `0 <= initialBoxes[i] < n`"""<br><br>    st = []<br>    result = []<br><br>    for c in s:<br>        if c != ')':<br>            st.append(c)<br>        else:<br>            temp = []<br>            while st and st[-1] != '(':<br>                temp.append(st.pop())<br>            if st: st.pop()  # Remove '('<br>            st.extend(temp)<br><br>    result = "".join(st)<br>    return result


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_319.txt
> def bulbSwitch(n):<br>    """There are `n` bulbs that are initially off. You first turn on all the bulbs, then you turn off every second bulb.<br><br>On the third round, you toggle every third bulb (turning on if it's off or turning off if it's on). For the `ith` round, you toggle every `i` bulb. For the `nth` round, you only toggle the last bulb.<br><br>Return _the number of bulbs that are on after `n` rounds_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: At first, the three bulbs are \[off, off, off\].<br>After the first round, the three bulbs are \[on, on, on\].<br>After the second round, the three bulbs are \[on, off, on\].<br>After the third round, the three bulbs are \[on, off, off\]. <br>So you should return 1 because there is only one bulb is on.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 0<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    return int(n0.5)

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 10, leetcode/leetcode_1375.txt
> def find_kth_palindrome(k, int_length):<br>    """You have a 1-indexed binary string of length `n` where all the bits are `0` initially. We will flip all the bits of this binary string (i.e., change them from `0` to `1`) one by one. You are given a 1-indexed integer array `flips` where `flips[i]` indicates that the bit at index `i` will be flipped in the `ith` step.<br><br>A binary string is prefix-aligned if, after the `ith` step, all the bits in the inclusive range `[1, i]` are ones and all the other bits are zeros.<br><br>Return _the number of times the binary string is prefix-aligned during the flipping process_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: flips = \[3,2,4,1,5\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The binary string is initially  "00000 ".<br>After applying step 1: The string becomes  "00100 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 2: The string becomes  "01100 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 3: The string becomes  "01110 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 4: The string becomes  "11110 ", which is prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 5: The string becomes  "11111 ", which is prefix-aligned.<br>We can see that the string was prefix-aligned 2 times, so we return 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: flips = \[4,1,2,3\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: The binary string is initially  "0000 ".<br>After applying step 1: The string becomes  "0001 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 2: The string becomes  "1001 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 3: The string becomes  "1101 ", which is not prefix-aligned.<br>After applying step 4: The string becomes  "1111 ", which is prefix-aligned.<br>We can see that the string was prefix-aligned 1 time, so we return 1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == flips.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5  104`<br>   `flips` is a permutation of the integers in the range `[1, n]`."""<br><br>    mid = (int_length + 1) // 2<br>    limit = 10  mid - 1<br><br>    i = 0<br>    while i <= limit:<br>        num = str(i)<br>        rev = num[::-1]<br>        if int_length % 2 != 0:<br>            rev = rev[1:]<br>        palindrome = int(num + rev)<br>        if palindrome  0:<br>            k -= 1<br>        if k == 0:<br>            return palindrome<br>        i += 1<br>    return -1<br><br>def palindrome_queries(queries, int_length):<br>    return [find_kth_palindrome(query, int_length) for query in queries]
