# Query `32`

## Original Question

*You are keeping the scores for a baseball game with strange rules. At the beginning of the game, you start with an empty record.

You are given a list of strings `operations`, where `operations[i]` is the `ith` operation you must apply to the record and is one of the following:

   An integer `x`.
       Record a new score of `x`.
   `'+'`.
       Record a new score that is the sum of the previous two scores.
   `'D'`.
       Record a new score that is the double of the previous score.
   `'C'`.
       Invalidate the previous score, removing it from the record.

Return _the sum of all the scores on the record after applying all the operations_.

The test cases are generated such that the answer and all intermediate calculations fit in a 32-bit integer and that all operations are valid.

Example 1:

Input: ops = \[ "5 ", "2 ", "C ", "D ", "+ "\]
Output: 30
Explanation:
 "5 " - Add 5 to the record, record is now \[5\].
 "2 " - Add 2 to the record, record is now \[5, 2\].
 "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[5\].
 "D " - Add 2 \ 5 = 10 to the record, record is now \[5, 10\].
 "+ " - Add 5 + 10 = 15 to the record, record is now \[5, 10, 15\].
The total sum is 5 + 10 + 15 = 30.

Example 2:

Input: ops = \[ "5 ", "-2 ", "4 ", "C ", "D ", "9 ", "+ ", "+ "\]
Output: 27
Explanation:
 "5 " - Add 5 to the record, record is now \[5\].
 "-2 " - Add -2 to the record, record is now \[5, -2\].
 "4 " - Add 4 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, 4\].
 "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[5, -2\].
 "D " - Add 2 \ -2 = -4 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4\].
 "9 " - Add 9 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9\].
 "+ " - Add -4 + 9 = 5 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9, 5\].
 "+ " - Add 9 + 5 = 14 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9, 5, 14\].
The total sum is 5 + -2 + -4 + 9 + 5 + 14 = 27.

Example 3:

Input: ops = \[ "1 ", "C "\]
Output: 0
Explanation:
 "1 " - Add 1 to the record, record is now \[1\].
 "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[\].
Since the record is empty, the total sum is 0.

Constraints:

   `1 <= operations.length <= 1000`
   `operations[i]` is `"C "`, `"D "`, `"+ "`, or a string representing an integer in the range `[-3  104, 3  104]`.
   For operation `"+ "`, there will always be at least two previous scores on the record.
   For operations `"C "` and `"D "`, there will always be at least one previous score on the record.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0019
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1770.txt
> def min_deletions(s):<br>    """You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `nums` and `multipliers` of size `n` and `m` respectively, where `n = m`.<br><br>You begin with a score of `0`. You want to perform exactly `m` operations. On the `ith` operation (0-indexed) you will:<br><br>   Choose one integer `x` from either the start or the end of the array `nums`.<br>   Add `multipliers[i]  x` to your score.<br>       Note that `multipliers[0]` corresponds to the first operation, `multipliers[1]` to the second operation, and so on.<br>   Remove `x` from `nums`.<br><br>Return _the maximum score after performing_ `m` _operations._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3\], multipliers = \[3,2,1\]<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is as follows:<br>- Choose from the end, \[1,2,3\], adding 3 \ 3 = 9 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[1,2\], adding 2 \ 2 = 4 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[1\], adding 1 \ 1 = 1 to the score.<br>The total score is 9 + 4 + 1 = 14.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[-5,-3,-3,-2,7,1\], multipliers = \[-10,-5,3,4,6\]<br>Output: 102<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is as follows:<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-5,-3,-3,-2,7,1\], adding -5 \ -10 = 50 to the score.<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-3,-3,-2,7,1\], adding -3 \ -5 = 15 to the score.<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-3,-2,7,1\], adding -3 \ 3 = -9 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[-2,7,1\], adding 1 \ 4 = 4 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[-2,7\], adding 7 \ 6 = 42 to the score. <br>The total score is 50 + 15 - 9 + 4 + 42 = 102.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `m == multipliers.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 300`<br>   `m <= n <= 105`<br>   `-1000 <= nums[i], multipliers[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    freq = collections.Counter(s)<br>    used = set()<br>    deletions = 0<br><br>    for count in freq.values():<br>        while count in used and count  0:<br>            deletions += 1<br>            count -= 1<br>        used.add(count)<br><br>    return deletions

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1478.txt
> def max_events(events):<br>    """Given the array `houses` where `houses[i]` is the location of the `ith` house along a street and an integer `k`, allocate `k` mailboxes in the street.<br><br>Return _the minimum total distance between each house and its nearest mailbox_.<br><br>The test cases are generated so that the answer fits in a 32-bit integer.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: houses = \[1,4,8,10,20\], k = 3<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: Allocate mailboxes in position 3, 9 and 20.<br>Minimum total distance from each houses to nearest mailboxes is |3-1| + |4-3| + |9-8| + |10-9| + |20-20| = 5 <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: houses = \[2,3,5,12,18\], k = 2<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: Allocate mailboxes in position 3 and 14.<br>Minimum total distance from each houses to nearest mailboxes is |2-3| + |3-3| + |5-3| + |12-14| + |18-14| = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= houses.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= houses[i] <= 104`<br>   All the integers of `houses` are unique."""<br><br>    events.sort(key=lambda x: x[1])<br><br>    count = 0<br>    last_day = -1<br><br>    for event in events:<br>        if event[0]  last_day:<br>            count += 1<br>            last_day = event[1]<br><br>    return count

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1872.txt
> def can_eat(candiesCount, queries):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, while the number of stones is more than one, they will do the following:<br><br>1.  Choose an integer `x  1`, and remove the leftmost `x` stones from the row.<br>2.  Add the sum of the removed stones' values to the player's score.<br>3.  Place a new stone, whose value is equal to that sum, on the left side of the row.<br><br>The game stops when only one stone is left in the row.<br><br>The score difference between Alice and Bob is `(Alice's score - Bob's score)`. Alice's goal is to maximize the score difference, and Bob's goal is the minimize the score difference.<br><br>Given an integer array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the score difference between Alice and Bob if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-1,2,-3,4,-5\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes the first 4 stones, adds (-1) + 2 + (-3) + 4 = 2 to her score, and places a stone of<br>  value 2 on the left. stones = \[2,-5\].<br>- Bob removes the first 2 stones, adds 2 + (-5) = -3 to his score, and places a stone of value -3 on<br>  the left. stones = \[-3\].<br>The difference between their scores is 2 - (-3) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,-6,5,10,5,-2,-6\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes all stones, adds 7 + (-6) + 5 + 10 + 5 + (-2) + (-6) = 13 to her score, and places a<br>  stone of value 13 on the left. stones = \[13\].<br>The difference between their scores is 13 - 0 = 13.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-10,-12\]<br>Output: -22<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice can only make one move, which is to remove both stones. She adds (-10) + (-12) = -22 to her<br>  score and places a stone of value -22 on the left. stones = \[-22\].<br>The difference between their scores is (-22) - 0 = -22.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    prefix_sum = [0]  (len(candiesCount) + 1)<br>    for i in range(len(candiesCount)):<br>        prefix_sum[i + 1] = prefix_sum[i] + candiesCount[i]<br><br>    result = [False]  len(queries)<br>    for i in range(len(queries)):<br>        favoriteType, favoriteDay, dailyCap = queries[i]<br>        x1 = favoriteDay + 1<br>        y1 = (favoriteDay + 1)  dailyCap<br><br>        x2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType] + 1<br>        y2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType + 1]<br><br>        result[i] = not (x1  y2 or y1 < x2)<br><br>    return result

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1255.txt
> def maxValueAfterReverse(nums):<br>    """Given a list of `words`, list of single `letters` (might be repeating) and `score` of every character.<br><br>Return the maximum score of any valid set of words formed by using the given letters (`words[i]` cannot be used two or more times).<br><br>It is not necessary to use all characters in `letters` and each letter can only be used once. Score of letters `'a'`, `'b'`, `'c'`, ... ,`'z'` is given by `score[0]`, `score[1]`, ... , `score[25]` respectively.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "dog ", "cat ", "dad ", "good "\], letters = \[ "a ", "a ", "c ", "d ", "d ", "d ", "g ", "o ", "o "\], score = \[1,0,9,5,0,0,3,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0\]<br>Output: 23<br>Explanation:<br>Score  a=1, c=9, d=5, g=3, o=2<br>Given letters, we can form the words  "dad " (5+1+5) and  "good " (3+2+2+5) with a score of 23.<br>Words  "dad " and  "dog " only get a score of 21.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "xxxz ", "ax ", "bx ", "cx "\], letters = \[ "z ", "a ", "b ", "c ", "x ", "x ", "x "\], score = \[4,4,4,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,5,0,10\]<br>Output: 27<br>Explanation:<br>Score  a=4, b=4, c=4, x=5, z=10<br>Given letters, we can form the words  "ax " (4+5),  "bx " (4+5) and  "cx " (4+5) with a score of 27.<br>Word  "xxxz " only get a score of 25.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "leetcode "\], letters = \[ "l ", "e ", "t ", "c ", "o ", "d "\], score = \[0,0,1,1,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>Letter  "e " can only be used once.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= words.length <= 14`<br>   `1 <= words[i].length <= 15`<br>   `1 <= letters.length <= 100`<br>   `letters[i].length == 1`<br>   `score.length == 26`<br>   `0 <= score[i] <= 10`<br>   `words[i]`, `letters[i]` contains only lower case English letters."""<br><br>    total, diff = 0, 0<br>    min2, max2 = float('inf'), float('-inf')<br>    for i in range(len(nums) - 1):<br>        total += abs(nums[i] - nums[i + 1])<br>        min2 = min(min2, max(nums[i], nums[i + 1]))<br>        max2 = max(max2, min(nums[i], nums[i + 1]))<br>        diff = max(diff, abs(nums[i + 1] - nums[0]) - abs(nums[i + 1] - nums[i]))<br>        diff = max(diff, abs(nums[i] - nums[-1]) - abs(nums[i] - nums[i + 1]))<br>    return total + max(diff, 2  (max2 - min2))

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1889.txt
> def check_powers_of_three(n: int) - bool:<br>    """You have `n` packages that you are trying to place in boxes, one package in each box. There are `m` suppliers that each produce boxes of different sizes (with infinite supply). A package can be placed in a box if the size of the package is less than or equal to the size of the box.<br><br>The package sizes are given as an integer array `packages`, where `packages[i]` is the size of the `ith` package. The suppliers are given as a 2D integer array `boxes`, where `boxes[j]` is an array of box sizes that the `jth` supplier produces.<br><br>You want to choose a single supplier and use boxes from them such that the total wasted space is minimized. For each package in a box, we define the space wasted to be `size of the box - size of the package`. The total wasted space is the sum of the space wasted in all the boxes.<br><br>   For example, if you have to fit packages with sizes `[2,3,5]` and the supplier offers boxes of sizes `[4,8]`, you can fit the packages of size-`2` and size-`3` into two boxes of size-`4` and the package with size-`5` into a box of size-`8`. This would result in a waste of `(4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total wasted space by choosing the box supplier optimally, or_ `-1` _if it is impossible to fit all the packages inside boxes._ Since the answer may be large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[4,8\],\[2,8\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the first supplier, using two size-4 boxes and one size-8 box.<br>The total waste is (4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is no box that the package of size 5 can fit in.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: packages = \[3,5,8,10,11,12\], boxes = \[\[12\],\[11,9\],\[10,5,14\]\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the third supplier, using two size-5 boxes, two size-10 boxes, and two size-14 boxes.<br>The total waste is (5-3) + (5-5) + (10-8) + (10-10) + (14-11) + (14-12) = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == packages.length`<br>   `m == boxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m <= 105`<br>   `1 <= packages[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j].length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j][k] <= 105`<br>   `sum(boxes[j].length) <= 105`<br>   The elements in `boxes[j]` are distinct."""<br><br>    while n  0:<br>        if n % 3 == 2:<br>            return False<br>        n //= 3<br>    return True


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1598.txt
> def minOperations(logs):<br>    """The Leetcode file system keeps a log each time some user performs a _change folder_ operation.<br><br>The operations are described below:<br><br>   `"../ "` : Move to the parent folder of the current folder. (If you are already in the main folder, remain in the same folder).<br>   `"./ "` : Remain in the same folder.<br>   `"x/ "` : Move to the child folder named `x` (This folder is guaranteed to always exist).<br><br>You are given a list of strings `logs` where `logs[i]` is the operation performed by the user at the `ith` step.<br><br>The file system starts in the main folder, then the operations in `logs` are performed.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations needed to go back to the main folder after the change folder operations._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "d2/ ", "../ ", "d21/ ", "./ "\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Use this change folder operation  "../ " 2 times and go back to the main folder.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "d2/ ", "./ ", "d3/ ", "../ ", "d31/ "\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "../ ", "../ ", "../ "\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= logs.length <= 103`<br>   `2 <= logs[i].length <= 10`<br>   `logs[i]` contains lowercase English letters, digits, `'.'`, and `'/'`.<br>   `logs[i]` follows the format described in the statement.<br>   Folder names consist of lowercase English letters and digits."""<br><br>    depth = 0<br>    for log in logs:<br>        if log == "../":<br>            depth = max(0, depth - 1)<br>        elif log != "./":<br>            depth += 1<br>    return depth
