# Query `36`

## Original Question

*Given an array of integers `temperatures` represents the daily temperatures, return _an array_ `answer` _such that_ `answer[i]` _is the number of days you have to wait after the_ `ith` _day to get a warmer temperature_. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep `answer[i] == 0` instead.

Example 1:

Input: temperatures = \[73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73\]
Output: \[1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0\]

Example 2:

Input: temperatures = \[30,40,50,60\]
Output: \[1,1,1,0\]

Example 3:

Input: temperatures = \[30,60,90\]
Output: \[1,1,0\]

Constraints:

   `1 <= temperatures.length <= 105`
   `30 <= temperatures[i] <= 100`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1667
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3562
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3562
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1667
map_cut_25: 0.1667
map_cut_50: 0.1667
map_cut_100: 0.1667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_238.txt
> def productExceptSelf(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _an array_ `answer` _such that_ `answer[i]` _is equal to the product of all the elements of_ `nums` _except_ `nums[i]`.<br><br>The product of any prefix or suffix of `nums` is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit integer.<br><br>You must write an algorithm that runs in `O(n)` time and without using the division operation.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\]<br>Output: \[24,12,8,6\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[-1,1,0,-3,3\]<br>Output: \[0,0,9,0,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-30 <= nums[i] <= 30`<br>   The product of any prefix or suffix of `nums` is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit integer.<br><br>Follow up: Can you solve the problem in `O(1)` extra space complexity? (The output array does not count as extra space for space complexity analysis.)"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    answer = [1]  n<br>    <br>    left = 1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        answer[i] = left<br>        left = nums[i]<br>    <br>    right = 1<br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        answer[i] = right<br>        right = nums[i]<br>    <br>    return answer

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1782.txt
> def get_smallest_string(n: int, k: int) - str:<br>    """You are given an undirected graph defined by an integer `n`, the number of nodes, and a 2D integer array `edges`, the edges in the graph, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates that there is an undirected edge between `ui` and `vi`. You are also given an integer array `queries`.<br><br>Let `incident(a, b)` be defined as the number of edges that are connected to either node `a` or `b`.<br><br>The answer to the `jth` query is the number of pairs of nodes `(a, b)` that satisfy both of the following conditions:<br><br>   `a < b`<br>   `incident(a, b)  queries[j]`<br><br>Return _an array_ `answers` _such that_ `answers.length == queries.length` _and_ `answers[j]` _is the answer of the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Note that there can be multiple edges between the same two nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,3\],\[2,1\]\], queries = \[2,3\]<br>Output: \[6,5\]<br>Explanation: The calculations for incident(a, b) are shown in the table above.<br>The answers for each of the queries are as follows:<br>- answers\[0\] = 6. All the pairs have an incident(a, b) value greater than 2.<br>- answers\[1\] = 5. All the pairs except (3, 4) have an incident(a, b) value greater than 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,5\],\[1,5\],\[3,4\],\[2,5\],\[1,3\],\[5,1\],\[2,3\],\[2,5\]\], queries = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: \[10,10,9,8,6\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 2  104`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 20`<br>   `0 <= queries[j] < edges.length`"""<br><br>    result = ['a']  n<br>    k -= n<br>    idx = n - 1<br>    while k  0:<br>        value = min(k, 25)<br>        result[idx] = chr(ord(result[idx]) + value)<br>        k -= value<br>        idx -= 1<br>    return ''.join(result)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1707.txt
> def can_transform(s, t):<br>    """You are given an array `nums` consisting of non-negative integers. You are also given a `queries` array, where `queries[i] = [xi, mi]`.<br><br>The answer to the `ith` query is the maximum bitwise `XOR` value of `xi` and any element of `nums` that does not exceed `mi`. In other words, the answer is `max(nums[j] XOR xi)` for all `j` such that `nums[j] <= mi`. If all elements in `nums` are larger than `mi`, then the answer is `-1`.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer.length == queries.length` _and_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,1,2,3,4\], queries = \[\[3,1\],\[1,3\],\[5,6\]\]<br>Output: \[3,3,7\]<br>Explanation:<br>1) 0 and 1 are the only two integers not greater than 1. 0 XOR 3 = 3 and 1 XOR 3 = 2. The larger of the two is 3.<br>2) 1 XOR 2 = 3.<br>3) 5 XOR 2 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,2,4,6,6,3\], queries = \[\[12,4\],\[8,1\],\[6,3\]\]<br>Output: \[15,-1,5\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length, queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= nums[j], xi, mi <= 109`"""<br><br>    i, j = 0, 0<br>    while i < len(s) and j < len(t):<br>        if s[i] == t[j]:<br>            i += 1<br>            j += 1<br>        else:<br>            i += 1<br>    return j == len(t)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2438.txt
> def getPowers(n):<br>    """Given a positive integer `n`, there exists a 0-indexed array called `powers`, composed of the minimum number of powers of `2` that sum to `n`. The array is sorted in non-decreasing order, and there is only one way to form the array.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `queries`, where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]`. Each `queries[i]` represents a query where you have to find the product of all `powers[j]` with `lefti <= j <= righti`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answers`_, equal in length to_ `queries`_, where_ `answers[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_. Since the answer to the `ith` query may be too large, each `answers[i]` should be returned modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 15, queries = \[\[0,1\],\[2,2\],\[0,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,4,64\]<br>Explanation:<br>For n = 15, powers = \[1,2,4,8\]. It can be shown that powers cannot be a smaller size.<br>Answer to 1st query: powers\[0\] \ powers\[1\] = 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>Answer to 2nd query: powers\[2\] = 4.<br>Answer to 3rd query: powers\[0\] \ powers\[1\] \ powers\[2\] \ powers\[3\] = 1 \ 2 \ 4 \ 8 = 64.<br>Each answer modulo 109 + 7 yields the same answer, so \[2,4,64\] is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, queries = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: \[2\]<br>Explanation:<br>For n = 2, powers = \[2\].<br>The answer to the only query is powers\[0\] = 2. The answer modulo 109 + 7 is the same, so \[2\] is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 109`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= starti <= endi < powers.length`"""<br><br>    powers = []<br>    while n  0:<br>        powers.append(n & (-n))<br>        n -= n & (-n)<br>    return powers<br><br>def productOfPowers(n, queries):<br>    powers = getPowers(n)<br>    answers = []<br><br>    mod = 109 + 7<br><br>    for query in queries:<br>        product = 1<br>        for i in range(query[0], query[1] + 1):<br>            product = (product  powers[i]) % mod<br>        answers.append(product)<br><br>    return answers

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2055.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is a long table with a line of plates and candles arranged on top of it. You are given a 0-indexed string `s` consisting of characters `''` and `'|'` only, where a `''` represents a plate and a `'|'` represents a candle.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `queries` where `queries[i] = [lefti, righti]` denotes the substring `s[lefti...righti]` (inclusive). For each query, you need to find the number of plates between candles that are in the substring. A plate is considered between candles if there is at least one candle to its left and at least one candle to its right in the substring.<br><br>   For example, `s = "||||| "`, and a query `[3, 8]` denotes the substring `"||| "`. The number of plates between candles in this substring is `2`, as each of the two plates has at least one candle in the substring to its left and right.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\|\\|\\\| ", queries = \[\[2,5\],\[5,9\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has two plates between candles.<br>- queries\[1\] has three plates between candles.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "\\\|\\|\\\\\|\\||\\|\ ", queries = \[\[1,17\],\[4,5\],\[14,17\],\[5,11\],\[15,16\]\]<br>Output: \[9,0,0,0,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>- queries\[0\] has nine plates between candles.<br>- The other queries have zero plates between candles.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= s.length <= 105`<br>   `s` consists of `''` and `'|'` characters.<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= lefti <= righti < s.length`"""<br><br><br>def splitPainting(segments):<br>    changes = defaultdict(int)<br>    for start, end, color in segments:<br>        changes[start] += color<br>        changes[end] -= color<br><br>    result = []<br>    start, color_sum = 0, 0<br>    for key in sorted(changes.keys()):<br>        if start != key:<br>            if color_sum:<br>                result.append([start, key, color_sum])<br>            start = key<br>        color_sum += changes[key]<br><br>    return result


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 5, leetcode/leetcode_496.txt
> def next_greater_element(nums1, nums2):<br>    """The next greater element of some element `x` in an array is the first greater element that is to the right of `x` in the same array.<br><br>You are given two distinct 0-indexed integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2`, where `nums1` is a subset of `nums2`.<br><br>For each `0 <= i < nums1.length`, find the index `j` such that `nums1[i] == nums2[j]` and determine the next greater element of `nums2[j]` in `nums2`. If there is no next greater element, then the answer for this query is `-1`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `ans` _of length_ `nums1.length` _such that_ `ans[i]` _is the next greater element as described above._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[4,1,2\], nums2 = \[1,3,4,2\]<br>Output: \[-1,3,-1\]<br>Explanation: The next greater element for each value of nums1 is as follows:<br>- 4 is underlined in nums2 = \[1,3,4,2\]. There is no next greater element, so the answer is -1.<br>- 1 is underlined in nums2 = \[1,3,4,2\]. The next greater element is 3.<br>- 2 is underlined in nums2 = \[1,3,4,2\]. There is no next greater element, so the answer is -1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[2,4\], nums2 = \[1,2,3,4\]<br>Output: \[3,-1\]<br>Explanation: The next greater element for each value of nums1 is as follows:<br>- 2 is underlined in nums2 = \[1,2,3,4\]. The next greater element is 3.<br>- 4 is underlined in nums2 = \[1,2,3,4\]. There is no next greater element, so the answer is -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums1.length <= nums2.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= nums1[i], nums2[i] <= 104`<br>   All integers in `nums1` and `nums2` are unique.<br>   All the integers of `nums1` also appear in `nums2`.<br><br>Follow up: Could you find an `O(nums1.length + nums2.length)` solution?"""<br><br>    next_greater = {}<br>    stack = []<br><br>    for num in nums2:<br>        while stack and stack[-1] < num:<br>            next_greater[stack.pop()] = num<br>        stack.append(num)<br><br>    return [next_greater.get(n, -1) for n in nums1]
