# Query `37`

## Original Question

*You are standing at position `0` on an infinite number line. There is a destination at position `target`.

You can make some number of moves `numMoves` so that:

   On each move, you can either go left or right.
   During the `ith` move (starting from `i == 1` to `i == numMoves`), you take `i` steps in the chosen direction.

Given the integer `target`, return _the minimum number of moves required (i.e., the minimum_ `numMoves`_) to reach the destination_.

Example 1:

Input: target = 2
Output: 3
Explanation:
On the 1st move, we step from 0 to 1 (1 step).
On the 2nd move, we step from 1 to -1 (2 steps).
On the 3rd move, we step from -1 to 2 (3 steps).

Example 2:

Input: target = 3
Output: 2
Explanation:
On the 1st move, we step from 0 to 1 (1 step).
On the 2nd move, we step from 1 to 3 (2 steps).

Constraints:

   `-109 <= target <= 109`
   `target != 0`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.3333
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.5000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.3333
map_cut_10: 0.3333
map_cut_25: 0.3333
map_cut_50: 0.3333
map_cut_100: 0.3333
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_871.txt
> def can_visit_all_rooms(rooms):<br>    """A car travels from a starting position to a destination which is `target` miles east of the starting position.<br><br>There are gas stations along the way. The gas stations are represented as an array `stations` where `stations[i] = [positioni, fueli]` indicates that the `ith` gas station is `positioni` miles east of the starting position and has `fueli` liters of gas.<br><br>The car starts with an infinite tank of gas, which initially has `startFuel` liters of fuel in it. It uses one liter of gas per one mile that it drives. When the car reaches a gas station, it may stop and refuel, transferring all the gas from the station into the car.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of refueling stops the car must make in order to reach its destination_. If it cannot reach the destination, return `-1`.<br><br>Note that if the car reaches a gas station with `0` fuel left, the car can still refuel there. If the car reaches the destination with `0` fuel left, it is still considered to have arrived.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 1, startFuel = 1, stations = \[\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: We can reach the target without refueling.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 100, startFuel = 1, stations = \[\[10,100\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We can not reach the target (or even the first gas station).<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 100, startFuel = 10, stations = \[\[10,60\],\[20,30\],\[30,30\],\[60,40\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: We start with 10 liters of fuel.<br>We drive to position 10, expending 10 liters of fuel.  We refuel from 0 liters to 60 liters of gas.<br>Then, we drive from position 10 to position 60 (expending 50 liters of fuel),<br>and refuel from 10 liters to 50 liters of gas.  We then drive to and reach the target.<br>We made 2 refueling stops along the way, so we return 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= target, startFuel <= 109`<br>   `0 <= stations.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= positioni < positioni+1 < target`<br>   `1 <= fueli < 109`"""<br><br>    visited = set()<br>    stack = [0]<br><br>    while stack:<br>        current_room = stack.pop()<br><br>        visited.add(current_room)<br><br>        for key in rooms[current_room]:<br>            if key not in visited:<br>                stack.append(key)<br><br>    return len(visited) == len(rooms)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_853.txt
> def max_profit_assignment(difficulty, profit, worker):<br>    """There are `n` cars going to the same destination along a one-lane road. The destination is `target` miles away.<br><br>You are given two integer array `position` and `speed`, both of length `n`, where `position[i]` is the position of the `ith` car and `speed[i]` is the speed of the `ith` car (in miles per hour).<br><br>A car can never pass another car ahead of it, but it can catch up to it and drive bumper to bumper at the same speed. The faster car will slow down to match the slower car's speed. The distance between these two cars is ignored (i.e., they are assumed to have the same position).<br><br>A car fleet is some non-empty set of cars driving at the same position and same speed. Note that a single car is also a car fleet.<br><br>If a car catches up to a car fleet right at the destination point, it will still be considered as one car fleet.<br><br>Return _the number of car fleets that will arrive at the destination_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 12, position = \[10,8,0,5,3\], speed = \[2,4,1,1,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>The cars starting at 10 (speed 2) and 8 (speed 4) become a fleet, meeting each other at 12.<br>The car starting at 0 does not catch up to any other car, so it is a fleet by itself.<br>The cars starting at 5 (speed 1) and 3 (speed 3) become a fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.<br>Note that no other cars meet these fleets before the destination, so the answer is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 10, position = \[3\], speed = \[3\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There is only one car, hence there is only one fleet.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 100, position = \[0,2,4\], speed = \[4,2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>The cars starting at 0 (speed 4) and 2 (speed 2) become a fleet, meeting each other at 4. The fleet moves at speed 2.<br>Then, the fleet (speed 2) and the car starting at 4 (speed 1) become one fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == position.length == speed.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 < target <= 106`<br>   `0 <= position[i] < target`<br>   All the values of `position` are unique.<br>   `0 < speed[i] <= 106`"""<br><br>    jobs = sorted(zip(difficulty, profit))<br>    worker.sort()<br><br>    i, max_profit, total_profit = 0, 0, 0<br>    for ability in worker:<br>        while i < len(difficulty) and ability = jobs[i][0]:<br>            max_profit = max(max_profit, jobs[i][1])<br>            i += 1<br>        total_profit += max_profit<br>    return total_profit

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2400.txt
> MOD = 109 + 7<br>    """You are given two positive integers `startPos` and `endPos`. Initially, you are standing at position `startPos` on an infinite number line. With one step, you can move either one position to the left, or one position to the right.<br><br>Given a positive integer `k`, return _the number of different ways to reach the position_ `endPos` _starting from_ `startPos`_, such that you perform exactly_ `k` _steps_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two ways are considered different if the order of the steps made is not exactly the same.<br><br>Note that the number line includes negative integers.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: startPos = 1, endPos = 2, k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can reach position 2 from 1 in exactly 3 steps in three ways:<br>- 1 - 2 - 3 - 2.<br>- 1 - 2 - 1 - 2.<br>- 1 - 0 - 1 - 2.<br>It can be proven that no other way is possible, so we return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: startPos = 2, endPos = 5, k = 10<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: It is impossible to reach position 5 from position 2 in exactly 10 steps.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= startPos, endPos, k <= 1000`"""<br><br>MAX = 1001<br><br>def ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp):<br>    if k == 0: return 1 if startPos == endPos else 0<br>    if startPos < 0 or endPos < 0 or startPos = MAX or endPos = MAX: return 0<br>    <br>    if dp[startPos][k] != -1: return dp[startPos][k]<br>    <br>    left = ways(startPos - 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    right = ways(startPos + 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    <br>    dp[startPos][k] = (left + right) % MOD<br>    return dp[startPos][k]<br><br>def numberOfWays(startPos, endPos, k):<br>    dp = [[-1 for _ in range(k + 1)] for _ in range(MAX)]<br>    return ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2365.txt
> def min_days_to_complete_tasks(tasks, space):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array of positive integers `tasks`, representing tasks that need to be completed in order, where `tasks[i]` represents the type of the `ith` task.<br><br>You are also given a positive integer `space`, which represents the minimum number of days that must pass after the completion of a task before another task of the same type can be performed.<br><br>Each day, until all tasks have been completed, you must either:<br><br>   Complete the next task from `tasks`, or<br>   Take a break.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of days needed to complete all tasks_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[1,2,1,2,3,1\], space = 3<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 9 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>Day 7: Take a break.<br>Day 8: Complete the 4th task.<br>Day 9: Complete the 5th task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 9 days.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[5,8,8,5\], space = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 6 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 6 days.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= tasks.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= tasks[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= space <= tasks.length`"""<br><br>    task_last_complete = {}<br>    days = 0<br><br>    for task in tasks:<br>        if task in task_last_complete:<br>            passed_days = days - task_last_complete[task]<br>            if passed_days < space:<br>                days += space - passed_days<br>        days += 1<br>        task_last_complete[task] = days<br><br>    return days

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_517.txt
> def find_min_moves(machines):<br>    """You have `n` super washing machines on a line. Initially, each washing machine has some dresses or is empty.<br><br>For each move, you could choose any `m` (`1 <= m <= n`) washing machines, and pass one dress of each washing machine to one of its adjacent washing machines at the same time.<br><br>Given an integer array `machines` representing the number of dresses in each washing machine from left to right on the line, return _the minimum number of moves to make all the washing machines have the same number of dresses_. If it is not possible to do it, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: machines = \[1,0,5\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>1st move:    1     0 <-- 5    =    1     1     4<br>2nd move:    1 <-- 1 <-- 4    =    2     1     3<br>3rd move:    2     1 <-- 3    =    2     2     2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: machines = \[0,3,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>1st move:    0 <-- 3     0    =    1     2     0<br>2nd move:    1     2 -- 0    =    1     1     1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: machines = \[0,2,0\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>It's impossible to make all three washing machines have the same number of dresses.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == machines.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `0 <= machines[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    n = len(machines)<br>    total_dresses = sum(machines)<br>    if total_dresses % n != 0:<br>        return -1<br>    average = total_dresses // n<br>    moves = 0<br>    imbalance = 0<br>    <br>    for i in range(n):<br>        imbalance += machines[i] - average<br>        moves = max(moves, abs(imbalance), machines[i] - average)<br>        <br>    return moves


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 2, leetcode/leetcode_2400.txt
> MOD = 109 + 7<br>    """You are given two positive integers `startPos` and `endPos`. Initially, you are standing at position `startPos` on an infinite number line. With one step, you can move either one position to the left, or one position to the right.<br><br>Given a positive integer `k`, return _the number of different ways to reach the position_ `endPos` _starting from_ `startPos`_, such that you perform exactly_ `k` _steps_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two ways are considered different if the order of the steps made is not exactly the same.<br><br>Note that the number line includes negative integers.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: startPos = 1, endPos = 2, k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can reach position 2 from 1 in exactly 3 steps in three ways:<br>- 1 - 2 - 3 - 2.<br>- 1 - 2 - 1 - 2.<br>- 1 - 0 - 1 - 2.<br>It can be proven that no other way is possible, so we return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: startPos = 2, endPos = 5, k = 10<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: It is impossible to reach position 5 from position 2 in exactly 10 steps.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= startPos, endPos, k <= 1000`"""<br><br>MAX = 1001<br><br>def ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp):<br>    if k == 0: return 1 if startPos == endPos else 0<br>    if startPos < 0 or endPos < 0 or startPos = MAX or endPos = MAX: return 0<br>    <br>    if dp[startPos][k] != -1: return dp[startPos][k]<br>    <br>    left = ways(startPos - 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    right = ways(startPos + 1, endPos, k - 1, dp)<br>    <br>    dp[startPos][k] = (left + right) % MOD<br>    return dp[startPos][k]<br><br>def numberOfWays(startPos, endPos, k):<br>    dp = [[-1 for _ in range(k + 1)] for _ in range(MAX)]<br>    return ways(startPos, endPos, k, dp)
