# Query `41`

## Original Question

*There is an undirected connected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and `n - 1` edges.

You are given the integer `n` and the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.

Return an array `answer` of length `n` where `answer[i]` is the sum of the distances between the `ith` node in the tree and all other nodes.

Example 1:

Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,5\]\]
Output: \[8,12,6,10,10,10\]
Explanation: The tree is shown above.
We can see that dist(0,1) + dist(0,2) + dist(0,3) + dist(0,4) + dist(0,5)
equals 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8.
Hence, answer\[0\] = 8, and so on.

Example 2:

Input: n = 1, edges = \[\]
Output: \[0\]

Example 3:

Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,0\]\]
Output: \[1,1\]

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 3  104`
   `edges.length == n - 1`
   `edges[i].length == 2`
   `0 <= ai, bi < n`
   `ai != bi`
   The given input represents a valid tree.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.3333
recall_10: 0.3333
recall_25: 0.3333
recall_50: 0.3333
recall_100: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2961
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2961
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1667
map_cut_10: 0.1667
map_cut_25: 0.1667
map_cut_50: 0.1667
map_cut_100: 0.1667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2242.txt
> def maxScore(scores, edges):<br>    """There is an undirected graph with `n` nodes, numbered from `0` to `n - 1`.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed integer array `scores` of length `n` where `scores[i]` denotes the score of node `i`. You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>A node sequence is valid if it meets the following conditions:<br><br>   There is an edge connecting every pair of adjacent nodes in the sequence.<br>   No node appears more than once in the sequence.<br><br>The score of a node sequence is defined as the sum of the scores of the nodes in the sequence.<br><br>Return _the maximum score of a valid node sequence with a length of_ `4`_._ If no such sequence exists, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: scores = \[5,2,9,8,4\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: 24<br>Explanation: The figure above shows the graph and the chosen node sequence \[0,1,2,3\].<br>The score of the node sequence is 5 + 2 + 9 + 8 = 24.<br>It can be shown that no other node sequence has a score of more than 24.<br>Note that the sequences \[3,1,2,0\] and \[1,0,2,3\] are also valid and have a score of 24.<br>The sequence \[0,3,2,4\] is not valid since no edge connects nodes 0 and 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: scores = \[9,20,6,4,11,12\], edges = \[\[0,3\],\[5,3\],\[2,4\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: The figure above shows the graph.<br>There are no valid node sequences of length 4, so we return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == scores.length`<br>   `4 <= n <= 5  104`<br>   `1 <= scores[i] <= 108`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= 5  104`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges."""<br><br>    adj_list = [[] for _ in range(len(scores))]<br>    result = -1<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        adj_list[edge[0]].append(edge[1])<br>        adj_list[edge[1]].append(edge[0])<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        for neighbor in adj_list[edge[0]]:<br>            for next in adj_list[edge[1]]:<br>                if next != neighbor and next != edge[0]:<br>                    result = max(result, scores[edge[0]] + scores[edge[1]] + scores[neighbor] + scores[next])<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2603.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with `n` nodes indexed from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array edges of length `n - 1`, where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree. You are also given an array `coins` of size `n` where `coins[i]` can be either `0` or `1`, where `1` indicates the presence of a coin in the vertex `i`.<br><br>Initially, you choose to start at any vertex in the tree. Then, you can perform the following operations any number of times:<br><br>   Collect all the coins that are at a distance of at most `2` from the current vertex, or<br>   Move to any adjacent vertex in the tree.<br><br>Find _the minimum number of edges you need to go through to collect all the coins and go back to the initial vertex_.<br><br>Note that if you pass an edge several times, you need to count it into the answer several times.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: coins = \[1,0,0,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 2, collect the coin at vertex 0, move to vertex 3, collect the coin at vertex 5 then move back to vertex 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: coins = \[0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[5,6\],\[5,7\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 0, collect the coins at vertices 4 and 3, move to vertex 2,  collect the coin at vertex 7, then move back to vertex 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == coins.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `0 <= coins[i] <= 1`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree."""<br><br><br>def min_edges_to_collect_coins(coins, edges):<br>    adj = defaultdict(list)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        adj[a].append(b)<br>        adj[b].append(a)<br>    return dfs(adj, coins, 0, -1)[1] // 2<br><br>def dfs(adj, coins, node, parent):<br>    sum_coins = coins[node]<br>    distance = 0<br>    for neighbor in adj[node]:<br>        if neighbor != parent:<br>            result = dfs(adj, coins, neighbor, node)<br>            sum_coins += result[0]<br>            distance += 2  result[0] + result[1]<br>    return (sum_coins, distance)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2285.txt
> class BitSet:<br>    """You are given an integer `n` denoting the number of cities in a country. The cities are numbered from `0` to `n - 1`.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `roads` where `roads[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists a bidirectional road connecting cities `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>You need to assign each city with an integer value from `1` to `n`, where each value can only be used once. The importance of a road is then defined as the sum of the values of the two cities it connects.<br><br>Return _the maximum total importance of all roads possible after assigning the values optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, roads = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: 43<br>Explanation: The figure above shows the country and the assigned values of \[2,4,5,3,1\].<br>- The road (0,1) has an importance of 2 + 4 = 6.<br>- The road (1,2) has an importance of 4 + 5 = 9.<br>- The road (2,3) has an importance of 5 + 3 = 8.<br>- The road (0,2) has an importance of 2 + 5 = 7.<br>- The road (1,3) has an importance of 4 + 3 = 7.<br>- The road (2,4) has an importance of 5 + 1 = 6.<br>The total importance of all roads is 6 + 9 + 8 + 7 + 7 + 6 = 43.<br>It can be shown that we cannot obtain a greater total importance than 43.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, roads = \[\[0,3\],\[2,4\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: The figure above shows the country and the assigned values of \[4,3,2,5,1\].<br>- The road (0,3) has an importance of 4 + 5 = 9.<br>- The road (2,4) has an importance of 2 + 1 = 3.<br>- The road (1,3) has an importance of 3 + 5 = 8.<br>The total importance of all roads is 9 + 3 + 8 = 20.<br>It can be shown that we cannot obtain a greater total importance than 20.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 5  104`<br>   `1 <= roads.length <= 5  104`<br>   `roads[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no duplicate roads."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, size):<br>        self.bits = [0]  ((size + 31) // 32)<br><br>    def set(self, index):<br>        self.bits[index // 32] |= (1 << (index % 32))<br><br>    def get(self, index):<br>        return (self.bits[index // 32] & (1 << (index % 32))) != 0

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2497.txt
> def max_star_sum(vals, edges, k):<br>    """There is an undirected graph consisting of `n` nodes numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `vals` of length `n` where `vals[i]` denotes the value of the `ith` node.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi.`<br><br>A star graph is a subgraph of the given graph having a center node containing `0` or more neighbors. In other words, it is a subset of edges of the given graph such that there exists a common node for all edges.<br><br>The image below shows star graphs with `3` and `4` neighbors respectively, centered at the blue node.<br><br>The star sum is the sum of the values of all the nodes present in the star graph.<br><br>Given an integer `k`, return _the maximum star sum of a star graph containing at most_ `k` _edges._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: vals = \[1,2,3,4,10,-10,-20\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\]\], k = 2<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>The star graph with the maximum star sum is denoted by blue. It is centered at 3 and includes its neighbors 1 and 4.<br>It can be shown it is not possible to get a star graph with a sum greater than 16.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: vals = \[-5\], edges = \[\], k = 0<br>Output: -5<br>Explanation: There is only one possible star graph, which is node 0 itself.<br>Hence, we return -5.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == vals.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= vals[i] <= 104`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(n  (n - 1) / 2``, 105)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `0 <= k <= n - 1`"""<br><br>    adj = [[] for _ in range(len(vals))]<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        adj[edge[0]].append(vals[edge[1]])<br>        adj[edge[1]].append(vals[edge[0]])<br><br>    ans = float("-inf")<br>    for i in range(len(vals)):<br>        adj[i].sort(reverse=True)<br>        ans = max(ans, vals[i] + sum(adj[i][:k]))<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2508.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is an undirected graph consisting of `n` nodes numbered from `1` to `n`. You are given the integer `n` and a 2D array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi`. The graph can be disconnected.<br><br>You can add at most two additional edges (possibly none) to this graph so that there are no repeated edges and no self-loops.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to make the degree of each node in the graph even, otherwise return_ `false`_._<br><br>The degree of a node is the number of edges connected to it.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,2\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows a valid way of adding an edge.<br>Every node in the resulting graph is connected to an even number of edges.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows a valid way of adding two edges.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is not possible to obtain a valid graph with adding at most 2 edges.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `2 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br><br>def possible_degree_even(n, edges):<br>    degrees = defaultdict(int)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        degrees[a] += 1<br>        degrees[b] += 1<br><br>    odd_degrees = sum(1 for d in range(1, n + 1) if degrees[d] % 2 != 0)<br>    return odd_degrees == 0 or odd_degrees == 2


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_979.txt
> def decode_permutation(s: str):<br>    """You are given the `root` of a binary tree with `n` nodes where each `node` in the tree has `node.val` coins. There are `n` coins in total throughout the whole tree.<br><br>In one move, we may choose two adjacent nodes and move one coin from one node to another. A move may be from parent to child, or from child to parent.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of moves required to make every node have exactly one coin_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: root = \[3,0,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: From the root of the tree, we move one coin to its left child, and one coin to its right child.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: root = \[0,3,0\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: From the left child of the root, we move two coins to the root \[taking two moves\]. Then, we move one coin from the root of the tree to the right child.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   The number of nodes in the tree is `n`.<br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `0 <= Node.val <= n`<br>   The sum of all `Node.val` is `n`."""<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    perm = [0]  (n + 1)<br>    next_zero, next_one = 0, n<br><br>    for c in s:<br>        if c == '0':<br>            perm[next_zero] = next_one<br>            next_zero += 1<br>            next_one -= 1<br>        else:<br>            perm[next_one] = next_zero<br>            next_one -= 1<br>            next_zero += 1<br><br>    perm[next_zero] = next_one<br>    return perm

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2049.txt
> def eliminate_monsters(dist, speed):<br>    """There is a binary tree rooted at `0` consisting of `n` nodes. The nodes are labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `parents` representing the tree, where `parents[i]` is the parent of node `i`. Since node `0` is the root, `parents[0] == -1`.<br><br>Each node has a score. To find the score of a node, consider if the node and the edges connected to it were removed. The tree would become one or more non-empty subtrees. The size of a subtree is the number of the nodes in it. The score of the node is the product of the sizes of all those subtrees.<br><br>Return _the number of nodes that have the highest score_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: parents = \[-1,2,0,2,0\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>- The score of node 0 is: 3 \ 1 = 3<br>- The score of node 1 is: 4 = 4<br>- The score of node 2 is: 1 \ 1 \ 2 = 2<br>- The score of node 3 is: 4 = 4<br>- The score of node 4 is: 4 = 4<br>The highest score is 4, and three nodes (node 1, node 3, and node 4) have the highest score.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: parents = \[-1,2,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- The score of node 0 is: 2 = 2<br>- The score of node 1 is: 2 = 2<br>- The score of node 2 is: 1 \ 1 = 1<br>The highest score is 2, and two nodes (node 0 and node 1) have the highest score.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == parents.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `parents[0] == -1`<br>   `0 <= parents[i] <= n - 1` for `i != 0`<br>   `parents` represents a valid binary tree."""<br><br>    n = len(dist)<br>    time_to_reach = sorted(dist[i] / speed[i] for i in range(n))<br>    monsters_eliminated = 0<br>    for time in time_to_reach:<br>        if monsters_eliminated < time:<br>            monsters_eliminated += 1<br>    return monsters_eliminated

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_2603.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with `n` nodes indexed from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array edges of length `n - 1`, where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree. You are also given an array `coins` of size `n` where `coins[i]` can be either `0` or `1`, where `1` indicates the presence of a coin in the vertex `i`.<br><br>Initially, you choose to start at any vertex in the tree. Then, you can perform the following operations any number of times:<br><br>   Collect all the coins that are at a distance of at most `2` from the current vertex, or<br>   Move to any adjacent vertex in the tree.<br><br>Find _the minimum number of edges you need to go through to collect all the coins and go back to the initial vertex_.<br><br>Note that if you pass an edge several times, you need to count it into the answer several times.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: coins = \[1,0,0,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 2, collect the coin at vertex 0, move to vertex 3, collect the coin at vertex 5 then move back to vertex 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: coins = \[0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[5,6\],\[5,7\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 0, collect the coins at vertices 4 and 3, move to vertex 2,  collect the coin at vertex 7, then move back to vertex 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == coins.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `0 <= coins[i] <= 1`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree."""<br><br><br>def min_edges_to_collect_coins(coins, edges):<br>    adj = defaultdict(list)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        adj[a].append(b)<br>        adj[b].append(a)<br>    return dfs(adj, coins, 0, -1)[1] // 2<br><br>def dfs(adj, coins, node, parent):<br>    sum_coins = coins[node]<br>    distance = 0<br>    for neighbor in adj[node]:<br>        if neighbor != parent:<br>            result = dfs(adj, coins, neighbor, node)<br>            sum_coins += result[0]<br>            distance += 2  result[0] + result[1]<br>    return (sum_coins, distance)
