# Query `42`

## Original Question

*You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:

   `arr.length >= 3`
   There exists some index `i` (0-indexed) with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:
       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`
       `arr[i] > arr[i + 1] > ... > arr[arr.length - 1]`

Given an integer array `arr`, return _the length of the longest subarray, which is a mountain_. Return `0` if there is no mountain subarray.

Example 1:

Input: arr = \[2,1,4,7,3,2,5\]
Output: 5
Explanation: The largest mountain is \[1,4,7,3,2\] which has length 5.

Example 2:

Input: arr = \[2,2,2\]
Output: 0
Explanation: There is no mountain.

Constraints:

   `1 <= arr.length <= 104`
   `0 <= arr[i] <= 104`

Follow up:

   Can you solve it using only one pass?
   Can you solve it in `O(1)` space?*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3869
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.2500
map_cut_10: 0.2500
map_cut_25: 0.2500
map_cut_50: 0.2500
map_cut_100: 0.2500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1095.txt
> def twoCitySchedCost(costs):<br>    """_(This problem is an interactive problem.)_<br><br>You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some `i` with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given a mountain array `mountainArr`, return the minimum `index` such that `mountainArr.get(index) == target`. If such an `index` does not exist, return `-1`.<br><br>You cannot access the mountain array directly. You may only access the array using a `MountainArray` interface:<br><br>   `MountainArray.get(k)` returns the element of the array at index `k` (0-indexed).<br>   `MountainArray.length()` returns the length of the array.<br><br>Submissions making more than `100` calls to `MountainArray.get` will be judged _Wrong Answer_. Also, any solutions that attempt to circumvent the judge will result in disqualification.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: array = \[1,2,3,4,5,3,1\], target = 3<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: 3 exists in the array, at index=2 and index=5. Return the minimum index, which is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: array = \[0,1,2,4,2,1\], target = 3<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: 3 does not exist in `the array,` so we return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= mountain_arr.length() <= 104`<br>   `0 <= target <= 109`<br>   `0 <= mountain_arr.get(index) <= 109`"""<br><br>    costs.sort(key=lambda x: x[0] - x[1])<br><br>    totalCost = 0<br>    n = len(costs) // 2<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        totalCost += costs[i][0] + costs[i + n][1]<br><br>    return totalCost

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1671.txt
> def minimumMountainRemovals(nums):<br>    """You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some index `i` (0-indexed) with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given an integer array `nums`​​​, return _the minimum number of elements to remove to make_ `nums_​​​_` _a mountain array._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The array itself is a mountain array so we do not need to remove any elements.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,5,6,2,3,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One solution is to remove the elements at indices 0, 1, and 5, making the array nums = \[1,5,6,3,1\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   It is guaranteed that you can make a mountain array out of `nums`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    left, right = [0]  n, [0]  n<br>    for i in range(1, n):<br>        left[i] = left[i - 1] + int(nums[i]  nums[i - 1])<br>        right[n - i - 1] = right[n - i] + int(nums[n - i - 1]  nums[n - i])<br>    ans = n - 3<br>    for i in range(1, n - 1):<br>        ans = min(ans, n - 1 - left[i] - right[i])<br>    return ans

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_941.txt
> def move_even_odd(nums):<br>    """Given an array of integers `arr`, return _`true` if and only if it is a valid mountain array_.<br><br>Recall that arr is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some `i` with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[2,1\]<br>Output: false<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[3,5,5\]<br>Output: false<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[0,3,2,1\]<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 104`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    even_index = 0<br>    odd_index = len(nums) - 1<br><br>    while even_index < odd_index:<br>        if nums[even_index] % 2 == 0:<br>            even_index += 1<br>        else:<br>            nums[even_index], nums[odd_index] = nums[odd_index], nums[even_index]<br>            odd_index -= 1<br><br>    return nums

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_852.txt
> def numFriendRequests(ages):<br>    """An array `arr` a mountain if the following properties hold:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some `i` with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given a mountain array `arr`, return the index `i` such that `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`.<br><br>You must solve it in `O(log(arr.length))` time complexity.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[0,1,0\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[0,2,1,0\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[0,10,5,2\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= arr.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 106`<br>   `arr` is guaranteed to be a mountain array."""<br><br>    count = [0]  121<br>    total_requests = 0<br><br>    for age in ages:<br>        count[age] += 1<br><br>    for a in range(1, 121):<br>        for b in range(1, 121):<br>            if a  0.5 + 7 = b:<br>                continue<br>            if a < b:<br>                continue<br>            if a < b  2:<br>                total_requests += count[a]  count[b]<br>                if a == b:<br>                    total_requests -= count[a]<br><br>    return total_requests

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1588.txt
> def sumOddLengthSubarrays(arr):<br>    """Given an array of positive integers `arr`, return _the sum of all possible odd-length subarrays of_ `arr`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous subsequence of the array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,4,2,5,3\]<br>Output: 58<br>Explanation: The odd-length subarrays of arr and their sums are:<br>\[1\] = 1<br>\[4\] = 4<br>\[2\] = 2<br>\[5\] = 5<br>\[3\] = 3<br>\[1,4,2\] = 7<br>\[4,2,5\] = 11<br>\[2,5,3\] = 10<br>\[1,4,2,5,3\] = 15<br>If we add all these together we get 1 + 4 + 2 + 5 + 3 + 7 + 11 + 10 + 15 = 58<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,2\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: There are only 2 subarrays of odd length, \[1\] and \[2\]. Their sum is 3.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[10,11,12\]<br>Output: 66<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= arr[i] <= 1000`<br><br>Follow up:<br><br>Could you solve this problem in O(n) time complexity?"""<br><br>    sum = 0<br>    n = len(arr)<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        oddSubarrays = ((i + 1)  (n - i) + 1) // 2<br>        sum += arr[i]  oddSubarrays<br>    return sum


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_1671.txt
> def minimumMountainRemovals(nums):<br>    """You may recall that an array `arr` is a mountain array if and only if:<br><br>   `arr.length = 3`<br>   There exists some index `i` (0-indexed) with `0 < i < arr.length - 1` such that:<br>       `arr[0] < arr[1] < ... < arr[i - 1] < arr[i]`<br>       `arr[i]  arr[i + 1]  ...  arr[arr.length - 1]`<br><br>Given an integer array `nums`​​​, return _the minimum number of elements to remove to make_ `nums_​​​_` _a mountain array._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The array itself is a mountain array so we do not need to remove any elements.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,1,5,6,2,3,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One solution is to remove the elements at indices 0, 1, and 5, making the array nums = \[1,5,6,3,1\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   It is guaranteed that you can make a mountain array out of `nums`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    left, right = [0]  n, [0]  n<br>    for i in range(1, n):<br>        left[i] = left[i - 1] + int(nums[i]  nums[i - 1])<br>        right[n - i - 1] = right[n - i] + int(nums[n - i - 1]  nums[n - i])<br>    ans = n - 3<br>    for i in range(1, n - 1):<br>        ans = min(ans, n - 1 - left[i] - right[i])<br>    return ans

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2100.txt
> def minNonZeroProduct(p):<br>    """You and a gang of thieves are planning on robbing a bank. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `security`, where `security[i]` is the number of guards on duty on the `ith` day. The days are numbered starting from `0`. You are also given an integer `time`.<br><br>The `ith` day is a good day to rob the bank if:<br><br>   There are at least `time` days before and after the `ith` day,<br>   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days before `i` are non-increasing, and<br>   The number of guards at the bank for the `time` days after `i` are non-decreasing.<br><br>More formally, this means day `i` is a good day to rob the bank if and only if `security[i - time] = security[i - time + 1] = ... = security[i] <= ... <= security[i + time - 1] <= security[i + time]`.<br><br>Return _a list of all days (0-indexed) that are good days to rob the bank_. _The order that the days are returned in does not matter._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: security = \[5,3,3,3,5,6,2\], time = 2<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>On day 2, we have security\[0\] = security\[1\] = security\[2\] <= security\[3\] <= security\[4\].<br>On day 3, we have security\[1\] = security\[2\] = security\[3\] <= security\[4\] <= security\[5\].<br>No other days satisfy this condition, so days 2 and 3 are the only good days to rob the bank.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: security = \[1,1,1,1,1\], time = 0<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,4\]<br>Explanation:<br>Since time equals 0, every day is a good day to rob the bank, so return every day.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: security = \[1,2,3,4,5,6\], time = 2<br>Output: \[\]<br>Explanation:<br>No day has 2 days before it that have a non-increasing number of guards.<br>Thus, no day is a good day to rob the bank, so return an empty list.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= security.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= security[i], time <= 105`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    prod = 1<br>    a = (1 << p) - 2<br>    b = ((1 << p) - 1) % MOD<br>       <br>    while a  0:<br>        if a % 2:<br>            prod = (prod  b) % MOD<br>        b = (b  b) % MOD<br>        a //= 2<br>    return prod
