# Query `44`

## Original Question

*There are `n` workers. You are given two integer arrays `quality` and `wage` where `quality[i]` is the quality of the `ith` worker and `wage[i]` is the minimum wage expectation for the `ith` worker.

We want to hire exactly `k` workers to form a paid group. To hire a group of `k` workers, we must pay them according to the following rules:

1.  Every worker in the paid group should be paid in the ratio of their quality compared to other workers in the paid group.
2.  Every worker in the paid group must be paid at least their minimum wage expectation.

Given the integer `k`, return _the least amount of money needed to form a paid group satisfying the above conditions_. Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.

Example 1:

Input: quality = \[10,20,5\], wage = \[70,50,30\], k = 2
Output: 105.00000
Explanation: We pay 70 to 0th worker and 35 to 2nd worker.

Example 2:

Input: quality = \[3,1,10,10,1\], wage = \[4,8,2,2,7\], k = 3
Output: 30.66667
Explanation: We pay 4 to 0th worker, 13.33333 to 2nd and 3rd workers separately.

Constraints:

   `n == quality.length == wage.length`
   `1 <= k <= n <= 104`
   `1 <= quality[i], wage[i] <= 104`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0023
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_887.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given `k` identical eggs and you have access to a building with `n` floors labeled from `1` to `n`.<br><br>You know that there exists a floor `f` where `0 <= f <= n` such that any egg dropped at a floor higher than `f` will break, and any egg dropped at or below floor `f` will not break.<br><br>Each move, you may take an unbroken egg and drop it from any floor `x` (where `1 <= x <= n`). If the egg breaks, you can no longer use it. However, if the egg does not break, you may reuse it in future moves.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of moves that you need to determine with certainty what the value of_ `f` is.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: k = 1, n = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: <br>Drop the egg from floor 1. If it breaks, we know that f = 0.<br>Otherwise, drop the egg from floor 2. If it breaks, we know that f = 1.<br>If it does not break, then we know f = 2.<br>Hence, we need at minimum 2 moves to determine with certainty what the value of f is.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: k = 2, n = 6<br>Output: 3<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: k = 3, n = 14<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= 100`<br>   `1 <= n <= 104`"""<br><br><br>def mincost_to_hire_workers(quality, wage, k):<br>    workers = sorted((w / q, q) for w, q in zip(wage, quality))<br>    total_quality = 0<br>    max_heap = []<br>    result = float("inf")<br><br>    for ratio, q in workers:<br>        heapq.heappush(max_heap, -q)<br>        total_quality += q<br><br>        if len(max_heap)  k:<br>            total_quality += heapq.heappop(max_heap)<br><br>        if len(max_heap) == k:<br>            result = min(result, total_quality  ratio)<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2303.txt
> def tax_amount(brackets, income):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `brackets` where `brackets[i] = [upperi, percenti]` means that the `ith` tax bracket has an upper bound of `upperi` and is taxed at a rate of `percenti`. The brackets are sorted by upper bound (i.e. `upperi-1 < upperi` for `0 < i < brackets.length`).<br><br>Tax is calculated as follows:<br><br>   The first `upper0` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent0`.<br>   The next `upper1 - upper0` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent1`.<br>   The next `upper2 - upper1` dollars earned are taxed at a rate of `percent2`.<br>   And so on.<br><br>You are given an integer `income` representing the amount of money you earned. Return _the amount of money that you have to pay in taxes._ Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[3,50\],\[7,10\],\[12,25\]\], income = 10<br>Output: 2.65000<br>Explanation:<br>Based on your income, you have 3 dollars in the 1st tax bracket, 4 dollars in the 2nd tax bracket, and 3 dollars in the 3rd tax bracket.<br>The tax rate for the three tax brackets is 50%, 10%, and 25%, respectively.<br>In total, you pay $3 \ 50% + $4 \ 10% + $3 \ 25% = $2.65 in taxes.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[1,0\],\[4,25\],\[5,50\]\], income = 2<br>Output: 0.25000<br>Explanation:<br>Based on your income, you have 1 dollar in the 1st tax bracket and 1 dollar in the 2nd tax bracket.<br>The tax rate for the two tax brackets is 0% and 25%, respectively.<br>In total, you pay $1 \ 0% + $1 \ 25% = $0.25 in taxes.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: brackets = \[\[2,50\]\], income = 0<br>Output: 0.00000<br>Explanation:<br>You have no income to tax, so you have to pay a total of $0 in taxes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= brackets.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= upperi <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= percenti <= 100`<br>   `0 <= income <= 1000`<br>   `upperi` is sorted in ascending order.<br>   All the values of `upperi` are unique.<br>   The upper bound of the last tax bracket is greater than or equal to `income`."""<br><br>    tax = 0<br>    prev_upper = 0<br>    for upper, percent in brackets:<br>        tax += (min(upper, income) - prev_upper)  (percent / 100)<br>        prev_upper = upper<br>        if income <= upper:<br>            break<br>    return tax

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1655.txt
> from collections import Counter<br>    """You are given an array of `n` integers, `nums`, where there are at most `50` unique values in the array. You are also given an array of `m` customer order quantities, `quantity`, where `quantity[i]` is the amount of integers the `ith` customer ordered. Determine if it is possible to distribute `nums` such that:<br><br>   The `ith` customer gets exactly `quantity[i]` integers,<br>   The integers the `ith` customer gets are all equal, and<br>   Every customer is satisfied.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to distribute_ `nums` _according to the above conditions_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\], quantity = \[2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The 0th customer cannot be given two different integers.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,3\], quantity = \[2\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The 0th customer is given \[3,3\]. The integers \[1,2\] are not used.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,2,2\], quantity = \[2,2\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The 0th customer is given \[1,1\], and the 1st customer is given \[2,2\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`<br>   `m == quantity.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 10`<br>   `1 <= quantity[i] <= 105`<br>   There are at most `50` unique values in `nums`."""<br><br><br>def canDistribute(nums, quantity):<br>    counts = Counter(nums)<br>    values = list(counts.values())<br>    quantity.sort(reverse=True)<br><br>    def dfs(index, values):<br>        if index == len(quantity):<br>            return True<br>        for i in range(len(values)):<br>            if values[i] = quantity[index]:<br>                values[i] -= quantity[index]<br>                if dfs(index + 1, values):<br>                    return True<br>                values[i] += quantity[index]<br>        return False<br><br>    return dfs(0, values)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2585.txt
> def numberOfWays(target, types):<br>    """There is a test that has `n` types of questions. You are given an integer `target` and a 0-indexed 2D integer array `types` where `types[i] = [counti, marksi]` indicates that there are `counti` questions of the `ith` type, and each one of them is worth `marksi` points.<br><br>Return _the number of ways you can earn exactly_ `target` _points in the exam_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that questions of the same type are indistinguishable.<br><br>   For example, if there are `3` questions of the same type, then solving the `1st` and `2nd` questions is the same as solving the `1st` and `3rd` questions, or the `2nd` and `3rd` questions.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 6, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: You can earn 6 points in one of the seven ways:<br>- Solve 6 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 6<br>- Solve 4 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 1 question of the 0th type, 1 question of the 1st type and 1 question of the 2nd type: 1 + 2 + 3 = 6<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 1st type: 2 + 2 + 2 = 6<br>- Solve 2 questions of the 2nd type: 3 + 3 = 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 5, types = \[\[50,1\],\[50,2\],\[50,5\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: You can earn 5 points in one of the four ways:<br>- Solve 5 questions of the 0th type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5<br>- Solve 3 questions of the 0th type and 1 question of the 1st type: 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 questions of the 0th type and 2 questions of the 1st type: 1 + 2 + 2 = 5<br>- Solve 1 question of the 2nd type: 5<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 18, types = \[\[6,1\],\[3,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You can only earn 18 points by answering all questions.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`<br>   `n == types.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 50`<br>   `types[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= counti, marksi <= 50`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    dp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    for count, marks in types:<br>        dptmp = [0]  (target + 1)<br>        for i in range(target + 1):<br>            for j in range(count + 1):<br>                if j  marks + i <= target:<br>                    dptmp[i + j  marks] = (dptmp[i + j  marks] + dp[i]) % MOD<br>        dp = dptmp<br>    return dp[target]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1611.txt
> def get_folder_names(names):<br>    """Given an integer `n`, you must transform it into `0` using the following operations any number of times:<br><br>   Change the rightmost (`0th`) bit in the binary representation of `n`.<br>   Change the `ith` bit in the binary representation of `n` if the `(i-1)th` bit is set to `1` and the `(i-2)th` through `0th` bits are set to `0`.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations to transform_ `n` _into_ `0`_._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The binary representation of 3 is  "11 ".<br> "11 " -  "01 " with the 2nd operation since the 0th bit is 1.<br> "01 " -  "00 " with the 1st operation.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 6<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The binary representation of 6 is  "110 ".<br> "110 " -  "010 " with the 2nd operation since the 1st bit is 1 and 0th through 0th bits are 0.<br> "010 " -  "011 " with the 1st operation.<br> "011 " -  "001 " with the 2nd operation since the 0th bit is 1.<br> "001 " -  "000 " with the 1st operation.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    name_count = {}<br>    ans = []<br><br>    for name in names:<br>        if name not in name_count:<br>            ans.append(name)<br>            name_count[name] = 1<br>        else:<br>            k = name_count[name]<br>            new_name = f"{name}({k})"<br>            while new_name in name_count:<br>                k += 1<br>                new_name = f"{name}({k})"<br>            ans.append(new_name)<br>            name_count[new_name] = 1<br>            name_count[name] = k + 1<br><br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2542.txt
> def maxScore(nums1, nums2, k):<br>    """You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2` of equal length `n` and a positive integer `k`. You must choose a subsequence of indices from `nums1` of length `k`.<br><br>For chosen indices `i0`, `i1`, ..., `ik - 1`, your score is defined as:<br><br>   The sum of the selected elements from `nums1` multiplied with the minimum of the selected elements from `nums2`.<br>   It can defined simply as: `(nums1[i0] + nums1[i1] +...+ nums1[ik - 1])  min(nums2[i0] , nums2[i1], ... ,nums2[ik - 1])`.<br><br>Return _the maximum possible score._<br><br>A subsequence of indices of an array is a set that can be derived from the set `{0, 1, ..., n-1}` by deleting some or no elements.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[1,3,3,2\], nums2 = \[2,1,3,4\], k = 3<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: <br>The four possible subsequence scores are:<br>- We choose the indices 0, 1, and 2 with score = (1+3+3) \ min(2,1,3) = 7.<br>- We choose the indices 0, 1, and 3 with score = (1+3+2) \ min(2,1,4) = 6. <br>- We choose the indices 0, 2, and 3 with score = (1+3+2) \ min(2,3,4) = 12. <br>- We choose the indices 1, 2, and 3 with score = (3+3+2) \ min(1,3,4) = 8.<br>Therefore, we return the max score, which is 12.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[4,2,3,1,1\], nums2 = \[7,5,10,9,6\], k = 1<br>Output: 30<br>Explanation: <br>Choosing index 2 is optimal: nums1\[2\] \ nums2\[2\] = 3 \ 10 = 30 is the maximum possible score.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums1.length == nums2.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= k <= n`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums1)<br>    res = 0<br>    sum_n1 = 0<br>    min_n2 = nums2[0]<br>    i, j = 0, 0<br>    while j < n:<br>        sum_n1 += nums1[j]<br>        min_n2 = min(min_n2, nums2[j])<br>        if j - i + 1  k:<br>            sum_n1 -= nums1[i]<br>            i += 1<br>        if j + 1 = k:<br>            res = max(res, sum_n1  min_n2)<br>        j += 1<br>    return res
