# Query `45`

## Original Question

*You are given an undirected graph (the "original graph ") with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You decide to subdivide each edge in the graph into a chain of nodes, with the number of new nodes varying between each edge.

The graph is given as a 2D array of `edges` where `edges[i] = [ui, vi, cnti]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ui` and `vi` in the original graph, and `cnti` is the total number of new nodes that you will subdivide the edge into. Note that `cnti == 0` means you will not subdivide the edge.

To subdivide the edge `[ui, vi]`, replace it with `(cnti + 1)` new edges and `cnti` new nodes. The new nodes are `x1`, `x2`, ..., `xcnti`, and the new edges are `[ui, x1]`, `[x1, x2]`, `[x2, x3]`, ..., `[xcnti-1, xcnti]`, `[xcnti, vi]`.

In this new graph, you want to know how many nodes are reachable from the node `0`, where a node is reachable if the distance is `maxMoves` or less.

Given the original graph and `maxMoves`, return _the number of nodes that are reachable from node_ `0` _in the new graph_.

Example 1:

Input: edges = \[\[0,1,10\],\[0,2,1\],\[1,2,2\]\], maxMoves = 6, n = 3
Output: 13
Explanation: The edge subdivisions are shown in the image above.
The nodes that are reachable are highlighted in yellow.

Example 2:

Input: edges = \[\[0,1,4\],\[1,2,6\],\[0,2,8\],\[1,3,1\]\], maxMoves = 10, n = 4
Output: 23

Example 3:

Input: edges = \[\[1,2,4\],\[1,4,5\],\[1,3,1\],\[2,3,4\],\[3,4,5\]\], maxMoves = 17, n = 5
Output: 1
Explanation: Node 0 is disconnected from the rest of the graph, so only node 0 is reachable.

Constraints:

   `0 <= edges.length <= min(n  (n - 1) / 2, 104)`
   `edges[i].length == 3`
   `0 <= ui < vi < n`
   There are no multiple edges in the graph.
   `0 <= cnti <= 104`
   `0 <= maxMoves <= 109`
   `1 <= n <= 3000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0050
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1782.txt
> def get_smallest_string(n: int, k: int) - str:<br>    """You are given an undirected graph defined by an integer `n`, the number of nodes, and a 2D integer array `edges`, the edges in the graph, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates that there is an undirected edge between `ui` and `vi`. You are also given an integer array `queries`.<br><br>Let `incident(a, b)` be defined as the number of edges that are connected to either node `a` or `b`.<br><br>The answer to the `jth` query is the number of pairs of nodes `(a, b)` that satisfy both of the following conditions:<br><br>   `a < b`<br>   `incident(a, b)  queries[j]`<br><br>Return _an array_ `answers` _such that_ `answers.length == queries.length` _and_ `answers[j]` _is the answer of the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Note that there can be multiple edges between the same two nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,3\],\[2,1\]\], queries = \[2,3\]<br>Output: \[6,5\]<br>Explanation: The calculations for incident(a, b) are shown in the table above.<br>The answers for each of the queries are as follows:<br>- answers\[0\] = 6. All the pairs have an incident(a, b) value greater than 2.<br>- answers\[1\] = 5. All the pairs except (3, 4) have an incident(a, b) value greater than 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,5\],\[1,5\],\[3,4\],\[2,5\],\[1,3\],\[5,1\],\[2,3\],\[2,5\]\], queries = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: \[10,10,9,8,6\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 2  104`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 20`<br>   `0 <= queries[j] < edges.length`"""<br><br>    result = ['a']  n<br>    k -= n<br>    idx = n - 1<br>    while k  0:<br>        value = min(k, 25)<br>        result[idx] = chr(ord(result[idx]) + value)<br>        k -= value<br>        idx -= 1<br>    return ''.join(result)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1697.txt
> from collections import defaultdict, deque<br>    """An undirected graph of `n` nodes is defined by `edgeList`, where `edgeList[i] = [ui, vi, disi]` denotes an edge between nodes `ui` and `vi` with distance `disi`. Note that there may be multiple edges between two nodes.<br><br>Given an array `queries`, where `queries[j] = [pj, qj, limitj]`, your task is to determine for each `queries[j]` whether there is a path between `pj` and `qj` such that each edge on the path has a distance strictly less than `limitj` .<br><br>Return _a boolean array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer.length == queries.length` _and the_ `jth` _value of_ `answer` _is_ `true` _if there is a path for_ `queries[j]` _is_ `true`_, and_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edgeList = \[\[0,1,2\],\[1,2,4\],\[2,0,8\],\[1,0,16\]\], queries = \[\[0,1,2\],\[0,2,5\]\]<br>Output: \[false,true\]<br>Explanation: The above figure shows the given graph. Note that there are two overlapping edges between 0 and 1 with distances 2 and 16.<br>For the first query, between 0 and 1 there is no path where each distance is less than 2, thus we return false for this query.<br>For the second query, there is a path (0 - 1 - 2) of two edges with distances less than 5, thus we return true for this query.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edgeList = \[\[0,1,10\],\[1,2,5\],\[2,3,9\],\[3,4,13\]\], queries = \[\[0,4,14\],\[1,4,13\]\]<br>Output: \[true,false\]<br>Exaplanation: The above figure shows the given graph.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= edgeList.length, queries.length <= 105`<br>   `edgeList[i].length == 3`<br>   `queries[j].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= ui, vi, pj, qj <= n - 1`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   `pj != qj`<br>   `1 <= disi, limitj <= 109`<br>   There may be multiple edges between two nodes."""<br><br><br>def distanceLimitedPathsExist(n, edgeList, queries):<br>    graph = defaultdict(list)<br><br>    for u, v, dis in edgeList:<br>        graph[u].append((v, dis))<br>        graph[v].append((u, dis))<br><br>    answer = [False]  len(queries)<br>    for i, (pj, qj, limitj) in enumerate(queries):<br>        q = deque([(pj, 0)])<br>        visited = [False]  n<br>        visited[pj] = True<br><br>        while q:<br>            curr_node, curr_dist = q.popleft()<br><br>            for next_node, next_dist in graph[curr_node]:<br>                if curr_dist + next_dist < limitj:<br>                    if next_node == qj:<br>                        answer[i] = True<br>                        break<br>                    if not visited[next_node]:<br>                        visited[next_node] = True<br>                        q.append((next_node, curr_dist + next_dist))<br>            if answer[i]:<br>                break<br><br>    return answer

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1791.txt
> def maximum_wealth(accounts):<br>    """There is an undirected star graph consisting of `n` nodes labeled from `1` to `n`. A star graph is a graph where there is one center node and exactly `n - 1` edges that connect the center node with every other node.<br><br>You are given a 2D integer array `edges` where each `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates that there is an edge between the nodes `ui` and `vi`. Return the center of the given star graph.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[4,2\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: As shown in the figure above, node 2 is connected to every other node, so 2 is the center.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[1,2\],\[5,1\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   The given `edges` represent a valid star graph."""<br><br>    return max(sum(customer) for customer in accounts)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1579.txt
> class UnionFind:<br>    """Alice and Bob have an undirected graph of `n` nodes and three types of edges:<br><br>   Type 1: Can be traversed by Alice only.<br>   Type 2: Can be traversed by Bob only.<br>   Type 3: Can be traversed by both Alice and Bob.<br><br>Given an array `edges` where `edges[i] = [typei, ui, vi]` represents a bidirectional edge of type `typei` between nodes `ui` and `vi`, find the maximum number of edges you can remove so that after removing the edges, the graph can still be fully traversed by both Alice and Bob. The graph is fully traversed by Alice and Bob if starting from any node, they can reach all other nodes.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of edges you can remove, or return_ `-1` _if Alice and Bob cannot fully traverse the graph._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,1,2\],\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,3\],\[1,2,4\],\[1,1,2\],\[2,3,4\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: If we remove the 2 edges \[1,1,2\] and \[1,1,3\]. The graph will still be fully traversable by Alice and Bob. Removing any additional edge will not make it so. So the maximum number of edges we can remove is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,1,2\],\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,4\],\[2,1,4\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Notice that removing any edge will not make the graph fully traversable by Alice and Bob.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[3,2,3\],\[1,1,2\],\[2,3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: In the current graph, Alice cannot reach node 4 from the other nodes. Likewise, Bob cannot reach 1. Therefore it's impossible to make the graph fully traversable.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(105, 3  n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= typei <= 3`<br>   `1 <= ui < vi <= n`<br>   All tuples `(typei, ui, vi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, size):<br>        self.parent = list(range(size))<br>        self.components = size<br><br>    def find(self, x):<br>        if x != self.parent[x]:<br>            self.parent[x] = self.find(self.parent[x])<br>        return self.parent[x]<br><br>    def unite(self, x, y):<br>        root_x, root_y = self.find(x), self.find(y)<br>        if root_x != root_y:<br>            self.parent[root_x] = root_y<br>            self.components -= 1<br>            return True<br>        return False<br><br>def max_num_edges_to_remove(n, edges):<br>    ufA, ufB = UnionFind(n + 1), UnionFind(n + 1)<br>    common_edges = 0<br><br>    for t, u, v in edges:<br>        if t == 3:<br>            if ufA.unite(u, v):<br>                ufB.unite(u, v)<br>                common_edges += 1<br><br>    removed_edges = 0<br>    for t, u, v in edges:<br>        uf = ufA if t == 1 else ufB if t == 2 else None<br>        if uf and not uf.unite(u, v):<br>            removed_edges += 1<br><br>    return -1 if ufA.components != 2 or ufB.components != 2 else removed_edges - common_edges

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1617.txt
> def winnerSquareGame(n: int) - bool:<br>    """There are `n` cities numbered from `1` to `n`. You are given an array `edges` of size `n-1`, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` represents a bidirectional edge between cities `ui` and `vi`. There exists a unique path between each pair of cities. In other words, the cities form a tree.<br><br>A subtree is a subset of cities where every city is reachable from every other city in the subset, where the path between each pair passes through only the cities from the subset. Two subtrees are different if there is a city in one subtree that is not present in the other.<br><br>For each `d` from `1` to `n-1`, find the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities in the subtree is equal to `d`.<br><br>Return _an array of size_ `n-1` _where the_ `dth` _element (1-indexed) is the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities is equal to_ `d`.<br><br>Notice that the distance between the two cities is the number of edges in the path between them.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[3,4,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2}, {2,3} and {2,4} have a max distance of 1.<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2,3}, {1,2,4}, {2,3,4} and {1,2,3,4} have a max distance of 2.<br>No subtree has two nodes where the max distance between them is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 15`<br>   `edges.length == n-1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   All pairs `(ui, vi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    dp = [False]  (n + 1)<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        j = 1<br>        while j  j <= i:<br>            if not dp[i - j  j]:<br>                dp[i] = True<br>                break<br>            j += 1<br>    return dp[n]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2092.txt
> def find_secret_sharers(n, meetings, first_person):<br>    """You are given an integer `n` indicating there are `n` people numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are also given a 0-indexed 2D integer array `meetings` where `meetings[i] = [xi, yi, timei]` indicates that person `xi` and person `yi` have a meeting at `timei`. A person may attend multiple meetings at the same time. Finally, you are given an integer `firstPerson`.<br><br>Person `0` has a secret and initially shares the secret with a person `firstPerson` at time `0`. This secret is then shared every time a meeting takes place with a person that has the secret. More formally, for every meeting, if a person `xi` has the secret at `timei`, then they will share the secret with person `yi`, and vice versa.<br><br>The secrets are shared instantaneously. That is, a person may receive the secret and share it with people in other meetings within the same time frame.<br><br>Return _a list of all the people that have the secret after all the meetings have taken place._ You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, meetings = \[\[1,2,5\],\[2,3,8\],\[1,5,10\]\], firstPerson = 1<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,5\]<br>Explanation:<br>At time 0, person 0 shares the secret with person 1.<br>At time 5, person 1 shares the secret with person 2.<br>At time 8, person 2 shares the secret with person 3.<br>At time 10, person 1 shares the secret with person 5.​​​​<br>Thus, people 0, 1, 2, 3, and 5 know the secret after all the meetings.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, meetings = \[\[3,1,3\],\[1,2,2\],\[0,3,3\]\], firstPerson = 3<br>Output: \[0,1,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>At time 0, person 0 shares the secret with person 3.<br>At time 2, neither person 1 nor person 2 know the secret.<br>At time 3, person 3 shares the secret with person 0 and person 1.<br>Thus, people 0, 1, and 3 know the secret after all the meetings.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 5, meetings = \[\[3,4,2\],\[1,2,1\],\[2,3,1\]\], firstPerson = 1<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,4\]<br>Explanation:<br>At time 0, person 0 shares the secret with person 1.<br>At time 1, person 1 shares the secret with person 2, and person 2 shares the secret with person 3.<br>Note that person 2 can share the secret at the same time as receiving it.<br>At time 2, person 3 shares the secret with person 4.<br>Thus, people 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 know the secret after all the meetings.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= meetings.length <= 105`<br>   `meetings[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= n - 1`<br>   `xi != yi`<br>   `1 <= timei <= 105`<br>   `1 <= firstPerson <= n - 1`"""<br><br>    secret_holders = [-1]  n<br>    secret_holders[0] = 0<br>    secret_holders[first_person] = 0<br><br>    meetings.sort(key=lambda x: x[2])<br><br>    for x, y, time in meetings:<br>        if secret_holders[x] != -1 and secret_holders[x] <= time:<br>            secret_holders[y] = time<br>        if secret_holders[y] != -1 and secret_holders[y] <= time:<br>            secret_holders[x] = time<br><br>    return [i for i in range(n) if secret_holders[i] != -1]
