# Query `47`

## Original Question

*You are visiting a farm that has a single row of fruit trees arranged from left to right. The trees are represented by an integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i]` is the type of fruit the `ith` tree produces.

You want to collect as much fruit as possible. However, the owner has some strict rules that you must follow:

   You only have two baskets, and each basket can only hold a single type of fruit. There is no limit on the amount of fruit each basket can hold.
   Starting from any tree of your choice, you must pick exactly one fruit from every tree (including the start tree) while moving to the right. The picked fruits must fit in one of your baskets.
   Once you reach a tree with fruit that cannot fit in your baskets, you must stop.

Given the integer array `fruits`, return _the maximum number of fruits you can pick_.

Example 1:

Input: fruits = \[1,2,1\]
Output: 3
Explanation: We can pick from all 3 trees.

Example 2:

Input: fruits = \[0,1,2,2\]
Output: 3
Explanation: We can pick from trees \[1,2,2\].
If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[0,1\].

Example 3:

Input: fruits = \[1,2,3,2,2\]
Output: 4
Explanation: We can pick from trees \[2,3,2,2\].
If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[1,2\].

Constraints:

   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`
   `0 <= fruits[i] < fruits.length`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0015
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2517.txt
> def max_tastiness(price, k):<br>    """You are given an array of positive integers `price` where `price[i]` denotes the price of the `ith` candy and a positive integer `k`.<br><br>The store sells baskets of `k` distinct candies. The tastiness of a candy basket is the smallest absolute difference of the prices of any two candies in the basket.<br><br>Return _the maximum tastiness of a candy basket._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: price = \[13,5,1,8,21,2\], k = 3<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: Choose the candies with the prices \[13,5,21\].<br>The tastiness of the candy basket is: min(|13 - 5|, |13 - 21|, |5 - 21|) = min(8, 8, 16) = 8.<br>It can be proven that 8 is the maximum tastiness that can be achieved.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: price = \[1,3,1\], k = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Choose the candies with the prices \[1,3\].<br>The tastiness of the candy basket is: min(|1 - 3|) = min(2) = 2.<br>It can be proven that 2 is the maximum tastiness that can be achieved.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: price = \[7,7,7,7\], k = 2<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Choosing any two distinct candies from the candies we have will result in a tastiness of 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= k <= price.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= price[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    price.sort()<br>    max_tastiness = 0<br>    for i in range(len(price) - k + 1):<br>        min_diff = float('inf')<br>        for j in range(i, i + k - 1):<br>            min_diff = min(min_diff, price[j + 1] - price[j])<br>        max_tastiness = max(max_tastiness, min_diff)<br><br>    return max_tastiness

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1552.txt
> def build_array(target, n):<br>    """In the universe Earth C-137, Rick discovered a special form of magnetic force between two balls if they are put in his new invented basket. Rick has `n` empty baskets, the `ith` basket is at `position[i]`, Morty has `m` balls and needs to distribute the balls into the baskets such that the minimum magnetic force between any two balls is maximum.<br><br>Rick stated that magnetic force between two different balls at positions `x` and `y` is `|x - y|`.<br><br>Given the integer array `position` and the integer `m`. Return _the required force_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: position = \[1,2,3,4,7\], m = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Distributing the 3 balls into baskets 1, 4 and 7 will make the magnetic force between ball pairs \[3, 3, 6\]. The minimum magnetic force is 3. We cannot achieve a larger minimum magnetic force than 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: position = \[5,4,3,2,1,1000000000\], m = 2<br>Output: 999999999<br>Explanation: We can use baskets 1 and 1000000000.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == position.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= position[i] <= 109`<br>   All integers in `position` are distinct.<br>   `2 <= m <= position.length`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    current = 1<br>    for num in target:<br>        while current < num:<br>            result.append("Push")<br>            result.append("Pop")<br>            current += 1<br>        result.append("Push")<br>        current += 1<br>    return result

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_940.txt
> def totalFruit(fruits):<br>    """Given a string s, return _the number of distinct non-empty subsequences of_ `s`. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>A subsequence of a string is a new string that is formed from the original string by deleting some (can be none) of the characters without disturbing the relative positions of the remaining characters. (i.e., `"ace "` is a subsequence of `"abcde "` while `"aec "` is not.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "abc "<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: The 7 distinct subsequences are  "a ",  "b ",  "c ",  "ab ",  "ac ",  "bc ", and  "abc ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "aba "<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The 6 distinct subsequences are  "a ",  "b ",  "ab ",  "aa ",  "ba ", and  "aba ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "aaa "<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The 3 distinct subsequences are  "a ",  "aa " and  "aaa ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 2000`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters."""<br><br>    left, right, max_count = 0, 0, 0<br>    count = {}<br><br>    while right < len(fruits):<br>        count[fruits[right]] = count.get(fruits[right], 0) + 1<br>        while len(count)  2:<br>            count[fruits[left]] -= 1<br>            if count[fruits[left]] == 0:<br>                del count[fruits[left]]<br>            left += 1<br>        max_count = max(max_count, right - left + 1)<br>        right += 1<br><br>    return max_count

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_945.txt
> def snakesAndLadders(board):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums`. In one move, you can pick an index `i` where `0 <= i < nums.length` and increment `nums[i]` by `1`.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of moves to make every value in_ `nums` _unique_.<br><br>The test cases are generated so that the answer fits in a 32-bit integer.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,2\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: After 1 move, the array could be \[1, 2, 3\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,1,2,1,7\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: After 6 moves, the array could be \[3, 4, 1, 2, 5, 7\].<br>It can be shown with 5 or less moves that it is impossible for the array to have all unique values.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    n = len(board)<br>    visited = [False]  (nn + 1)<br>    queue = [(1, 0)]  # starting at position 1<br>    visited[1] = True<br><br>    def get_position(pos):<br>        r = (pos - 1) // n<br>        c = (pos - 1) % n<br>        if r % 2 == 1:<br>            c = n - 1 - c<br>        r = n - r - 1<br>        return r, c<br><br>    while queue:<br>        pos, steps = queue.pop(0)<br>        for jump in range(1, 7):<br>            next_pos = pos + jump<br>            if next_pos  nn:<br>                break<br>            r, c = get_position(next_pos)<br>            if board[r][c] != -1:<br>                next_pos = board[r][c]<br>            if next_pos == nn:<br>                return steps + 1<br>            if not visited[next_pos]:<br>                visited[next_pos] = True<br>                queue.append((next_pos, steps + 1))<br><br>    return -1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1561.txt
> def arrangeWords(text: str) - str:<br>    """There are `3n` piles of coins of varying size, you and your friends will take piles of coins as follows:<br><br>   In each step, you will choose any `3` piles of coins (not necessarily consecutive).<br>   Of your choice, Alice will pick the pile with the maximum number of coins.<br>   You will pick the next pile with the maximum number of coins.<br>   Your friend Bob will pick the last pile.<br>   Repeat until there are no more piles of coins.<br><br>Given an array of integers `piles` where `piles[i]` is the number of coins in the `ith` pile.<br><br>Return the maximum number of coins that you can have.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: piles = \[2,4,1,2,7,8\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: Choose the triplet (2, 7, 8), Alice Pick the pile with 8 coins, you the pile with 7 coins and Bob the last one.<br>Choose the triplet (1, 2, 4), Alice Pick the pile with 4 coins, you the pile with 2 coins and Bob the last one.<br>The maximum number of coins which you can have are: 7 + 2 = 9.<br>On the other hand if we choose this arrangement (1, 2, 8), (2, 4, 7) you only get 2 + 4 = 6 coins which is not optimal.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: piles = \[2,4,5\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: piles = \[9,8,7,6,5,1,2,3,4\]<br>Output: 18<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= piles.length <= 105`<br>   `piles.length % 3 == 0`<br>   `1 <= piles[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    words = text.split()<br>    words[0] = words[0].lower()<br>    words.sort(key=len)<br>    words[0] = words[0].capitalize()<br>    return ' '.join(words)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2401.txt
> def longestNiceSubarray(nums):<br>    """You are given an array `nums` consisting of positive integers.<br><br>We call a subarray of `nums` nice if the bitwise AND of every pair of elements that are in different positions in the subarray is equal to `0`.<br><br>Return _the length of the longest nice subarray_.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous part of an array.<br><br>Note that subarrays of length `1` are always considered nice.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,8,48,10\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The longest nice subarray is \[3,8,48\]. This subarray satisfies the conditions:<br>- 3 AND 8 = 0.<br>- 3 AND 48 = 0.<br>- 8 AND 48 = 0.<br>It can be proven that no longer nice subarray can be obtained, so we return 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,1,5,11,13\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: The length of the longest nice subarray is 1. Any subarray of length 1 can be chosen.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    max_len = 1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        mask = 0<br>        for j in range(i, n):<br>            mask |= nums[j]<br>            if mask & (mask - 1) == 0:<br>                max_len = max(max_len, j - i + 1)<br>    return max_len
