# Query `48`

## Original Question

*A game on an undirected graph is played by two players, Mouse and Cat, who alternate turns.

The graph is given as follows: `graph[a]` is a list of all nodes `b` such that `ab` is an edge of the graph.

The mouse starts at node `1` and goes first, the cat starts at node `2` and goes second, and there is a hole at node `0`.

During each player's turn, they must travel along one edge of the graph that meets where they are. For example, if the Mouse is at node 1, it must travel to any node in `graph[1]`.

Additionally, it is not allowed for the Cat to travel to the Hole (node 0.)

Then, the game can end in three ways:

   If ever the Cat occupies the same node as the Mouse, the Cat wins.
   If ever the Mouse reaches the Hole, the Mouse wins.
   If ever a position is repeated (i.e., the players are in the same position as a previous turn, and it is the same player's turn to move), the game is a draw.

Given a `graph`, and assuming both players play optimally, return

   `1` if the mouse wins the game,
   `2` if the cat wins the game, or
   `0` if the game is a draw.

Example 1:

Input: graph = \[\[2,5\],\[3\],\[0,4,5\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,3\],\[0,2,3\]\]
Output: 0

Example 2:

Input: graph = \[\[1,3\],\[0\],\[3\],\[0,2\]\]
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `3 <= graph.length <= 50`
   `1 <= graph[i].length < graph.length`
   `0 <= graph[i][j] < graph.length`
   `graph[i][j] != i`
   `graph[i]` is unique.
   The mouse and the cat can always move.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1728.txt
> class Fancy:<br>    """A game is played by a cat and a mouse named Cat and Mouse.<br><br>The environment is represented by a `grid` of size `rows x cols`, where each element is a wall, floor, player (Cat, Mouse), or food.<br><br>   Players are represented by the characters `'C'`(Cat)`,'M'`(Mouse).<br>   Floors are represented by the character `'.'` and can be walked on.<br>   Walls are represented by the character `'#'` and cannot be walked on.<br>   Food is represented by the character `'F'` and can be walked on.<br>   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.<br><br>Mouse and Cat play according to the following rules:<br><br>   Mouse moves first, then they take turns to move.<br>   During each turn, Cat and Mouse can jump in one of the four directions (left, right, up, down). They cannot jump over the wall nor outside of the `grid`.<br>   `catJump, mouseJump` are the maximum lengths Cat and Mouse can jump at a time, respectively. Cat and Mouse can jump less than the maximum length.<br>   Staying in the same position is allowed.<br>   Mouse can jump over Cat.<br><br>The game can end in 4 ways:<br><br>   If Cat occupies the same position as Mouse, Cat wins.<br>   If Cat reaches the food first, Cat wins.<br>   If Mouse reaches the food first, Mouse wins.<br>   If Mouse cannot get to the food within 1000 turns, Cat wins.<br><br>Given a `rows x cols` matrix `grid` and two integers `catJump` and `mouseJump`, return `true` _if Mouse can win the game if both Cat and Mouse play optimally, otherwise return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "####F ", "#C... ", "M.... "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 2<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Cat cannot catch Mouse on its turn nor can it get the food before Mouse.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 4<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 3<br>Output: false<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `rows == grid.length`<br>   `cols = grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= rows, cols <= 8`<br>   `grid[i][j]` consist only of characters `'C'`, `'M'`, `'F'`, `'.'`, and `'#'`.<br>   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.<br>   `1 <= catJump, mouseJump <= 8`"""<br><br>    def __init__(self):<br>        self.sequence = []<br><br>    def append(self, val):<br>        self.sequence.append(val)<br><br>    def addAll(self, inc):<br>        self.sequence = [num + inc for num in self.sequence]<br><br>    def multAll(self, m):<br>        self.sequence = [num  m for num in self.sequence]<br><br>    def getIndex(self, idx):<br>        if idx = len(self.sequence):<br>            return -1<br>        return self.sequence[idx]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1275.txt
> def validateBinaryTreeNodes(n, leftChild, rightChild):<br>    """Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.<br><br>You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "A "<br>Explanation: A wins, they always play first.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output:  "B "<br>Explanation: B wins.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "Draw "<br>Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`<br>   `moves[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`<br>   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.<br>   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe."""<br><br>    parent = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if leftChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[leftChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[leftChild[i]] = i<br>        if rightChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[rightChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[rightChild[i]] = i<br>    <br>    root = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if parent[i] == -1:<br>            if root != -1:<br>                return False<br>            root = i<br><br>    return root != -1

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1686.txt
> def stoneGameVI(aliceValues, bobValues):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones in a pile. On each player's turn, they can remove a stone from the pile and receive points based on the stone's value. Alice and Bob may value the stones differently.<br><br>You are given two integer arrays of length `n`, `aliceValues` and `bobValues`. Each `aliceValues[i]` and `bobValues[i]` represents how Alice and Bob, respectively, value the `ith` stone.<br><br>The winner is the person with the most points after all the stones are chosen. If both players have the same amount of points, the game results in a draw. Both players will play optimally. Both players know the other's values.<br><br>Determine the result of the game, and:<br><br>   If Alice wins, return `1`.<br>   If Bob wins, return `-1`.<br>   If the game results in a draw, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,3\], bobValues = \[2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 1 (0-indexed) first, Alice will receive 3 points.<br>Bob can only choose stone 0, and will only receive 2 points.<br>Alice wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,2\], bobValues = \[3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 0, and Bob takes stone 1, they will both have 1 point.<br>Draw.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[2,4,3\], bobValues = \[1,6,7\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>Regardless of how Alice plays, Bob will be able to have more points than Alice.<br>For example, if Alice takes stone 1, Bob can take stone 2, and Alice takes stone 0, Alice will have 6 points to Bob's 7.<br>Bob wins.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == aliceValues.length == bobValues.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= aliceValues[i], bobValues[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    n = len(aliceValues)<br>    diff = sorted([(aliceValues[i] + bobValues[i], i) for i in range(n)], reverse=True)<br><br>    aliceSum, bobSum = 0, 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if i % 2 == 0:<br>            aliceSum += aliceValues[diff[i][1]]<br>        else:<br>            bobSum += bobValues[diff[i][1]]<br>            <br>    return 0 if aliceSum == bobSum else (1 if aliceSum  bobSum else -1)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_785.txt
> def isBipartite(graph: List[List[int]]) - bool:<br>    """There is an undirected graph with `n` nodes, where each node is numbered between `0` and `n - 1`. You are given a 2D array `graph`, where `graph[u]` is an array of nodes that node `u` is adjacent to. More formally, for each `v` in `graph[u]`, there is an undirected edge between node `u` and node `v`. The graph has the following properties:<br><br>   There are no self-edges (`graph[u]` does not contain `u`).<br>   There are no parallel edges (`graph[u]` does not contain duplicate values).<br>   If `v` is in `graph[u]`, then `u` is in `graph[v]` (the graph is undirected).<br>   The graph may not be connected, meaning there may be two nodes `u` and `v` such that there is no path between them.<br><br>A graph is bipartite if the nodes can be partitioned into two independent sets `A` and `B` such that every edge in the graph connects a node in set `A` and a node in set `B`.<br><br>Return `true` _if and only if it is bipartite_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,2,3\],\[0,2\],\[0,1,3\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: There is no way to partition the nodes into two independent sets such that every edge connects a node in one and a node in the other.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,3\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: We can partition the nodes into two sets: {0, 2} and {1, 3}.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `graph.length == n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `0 <= graph[u].length < n`<br>   `0 <= graph[u][i] <= n - 1`<br>   `graph[u]` does not contain `u`.<br>   All the values of `graph[u]` are unique.<br>   If `graph[u]` contains `v`, then `graph[v]` contains `u`."""<br><br>    def dfs(node: int, color: int) - bool:<br>        if colors[node]:<br>            return colors[node] == color<br><br>        colors[node] = color<br>        for neighbor in graph[node]:<br>            if not dfs(neighbor, 3 - color):<br>                return False<br><br>        return True<br><br>    n = len(graph)<br>    colors = [0]  n<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if not colors[i] and not dfs(i, 1):<br>            return False<br><br>    return True

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2029.txt
> def stoneGameIX(stones: List[int]) - bool:<br>    """Alice and Bob continue their games with stones. There is a row of n stones, and each stone has an associated value. You are given an integer array `stones`, where `stones[i]` is the value of the `ith` stone.<br><br>Alice and Bob take turns, with Alice starting first. On each turn, the player may remove any stone from `stones`. The player who removes a stone loses if the sum of the values of all removed stones is divisible by `3`. Bob will win automatically if there are no remaining stones (even if it is Alice's turn).<br><br>Assuming both players play optimally, return `true` _if Alice wins and_ `false` _if Bob wins_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2,1\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The game will be played as follows:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove either stone.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the remaining stone. <br>The sum of the removed stones is 1 + 2 = 3 and is divisible by 3. Therefore, Bob loses and Alice wins the game.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Alice will remove the only stone, and the sum of the values on the removed stones is 2. <br>Since all the stones are removed and the sum of values is not divisible by 3, Bob wins the game.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,1,2,4,3\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Bob will always win. One possible way for Bob to win is shown below:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove the second stone with value 1. Sum of removed stones = 1.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the fifth stone with value 3. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 = 4.<br>- Turn 3: Alices removes the fourth stone with value 4. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 = 8.<br>- Turn 4: Bob removes the third stone with value 2. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 = 10.<br>- Turn 5: Alice removes the first stone with value 5. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 + 5 = 15.<br>Alice loses the game because the sum of the removed stones (15) is divisible by 3. Bob wins the game.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    cnt = [0, 0, 0]<br>    for s in stones:<br>        cnt[s % 3] += 1<br>    return (cnt[1] and cnt[2]) or (cnt[1]  cnt[2] if cnt[1]  cnt[2] + 2 else cnt[2]  cnt[1] + 1)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_1728.txt
> class Fancy:<br>    """A game is played by a cat and a mouse named Cat and Mouse.<br><br>The environment is represented by a `grid` of size `rows x cols`, where each element is a wall, floor, player (Cat, Mouse), or food.<br><br>   Players are represented by the characters `'C'`(Cat)`,'M'`(Mouse).<br>   Floors are represented by the character `'.'` and can be walked on.<br>   Walls are represented by the character `'#'` and cannot be walked on.<br>   Food is represented by the character `'F'` and can be walked on.<br>   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.<br><br>Mouse and Cat play according to the following rules:<br><br>   Mouse moves first, then they take turns to move.<br>   During each turn, Cat and Mouse can jump in one of the four directions (left, right, up, down). They cannot jump over the wall nor outside of the `grid`.<br>   `catJump, mouseJump` are the maximum lengths Cat and Mouse can jump at a time, respectively. Cat and Mouse can jump less than the maximum length.<br>   Staying in the same position is allowed.<br>   Mouse can jump over Cat.<br><br>The game can end in 4 ways:<br><br>   If Cat occupies the same position as Mouse, Cat wins.<br>   If Cat reaches the food first, Cat wins.<br>   If Mouse reaches the food first, Mouse wins.<br>   If Mouse cannot get to the food within 1000 turns, Cat wins.<br><br>Given a `rows x cols` matrix `grid` and two integers `catJump` and `mouseJump`, return `true` _if Mouse can win the game if both Cat and Mouse play optimally, otherwise return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "####F ", "#C... ", "M.... "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 2<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Cat cannot catch Mouse on its turn nor can it get the food before Mouse.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 4<br>Output: true<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 3<br>Output: false<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `rows == grid.length`<br>   `cols = grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= rows, cols <= 8`<br>   `grid[i][j]` consist only of characters `'C'`, `'M'`, `'F'`, `'.'`, and `'#'`.<br>   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.<br>   `1 <= catJump, mouseJump <= 8`"""<br><br>    def __init__(self):<br>        self.sequence = []<br><br>    def append(self, val):<br>        self.sequence.append(val)<br><br>    def addAll(self, inc):<br>        self.sequence = [num + inc for num in self.sequence]<br><br>    def multAll(self, m):<br>        self.sequence = [num  m for num in self.sequence]<br><br>    def getIndex(self, idx):<br>        if idx = len(self.sequence):<br>            return -1<br>        return self.sequence[idx]
