# Query `50`

## Original Question

*Given an array of `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` represents a point on the X-Y plane and an integer `k`, return the `k` closest points to the origin `(0, 0)`.

The distance between two points on the X-Y plane is the Euclidean distance (i.e., `√(x1 - x2)2 + (y1 - y2)2`).

You may return the answer in any order. The answer is guaranteed to be unique (except for the order that it is in).

Example 1:

Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[-2,2\]\], k = 1
Output: \[\[-2,2\]\]
Explanation:
The distance between (1, 3) and the origin is sqrt(10).
The distance between (-2, 2) and the origin is sqrt(8).
Since sqrt(8) < sqrt(10), (-2, 2) is closer to the origin.
We only want the closest k = 1 points from the origin, so the answer is just \[\[-2,2\]\].

Example 2:

Input: points = \[\[3,3\],\[5,-1\],\[-2,4\]\], k = 2
Output: \[\[3,3\],\[-2,4\]\]
Explanation: The answer \[\[-2,4\],\[3,3\]\] would also be accepted.

Constraints:

   `1 <= k <= points.length <= 104`
   `-104 < xi, yi < 104`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.2500
recall_10: 0.2500
recall_25: 0.2500
recall_50: 0.2500
recall_100: 0.2500
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.2463
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2463
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2463
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2463
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2463
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1250
map_cut_10: 0.1250
map_cut_25: 0.1250
map_cut_50: 0.1250
map_cut_100: 0.1250
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_447.txt
> def numberOfBoomerangs(points):<br>    """You are given `n` `points` in the plane that are all distinct, where `points[i] = [xi, yi]`. A boomerang is a tuple of points `(i, j, k)` such that the distance between `i` and `j` equals the distance between `i` and `k` (the order of the tuple matters).<br><br>Return _the number of boomerangs_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The two boomerangs are \[\[1,0\],\[0,0\],\[2,0\]\] and \[\[1,0\],\[2,0\],\[0,0\]\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == points.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 500`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-104 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   All the points are unique."""<br><br>    count = 0<br><br>    for i in points:<br>        group_count = {}<br>        for j in points:<br>            dx, dy = i[0] - j[0], i[1] - j[1]<br>            dist = dx  dx + dy  dy<br>            group_count[dist] = group_count.get(dist, 0) + 1<br><br>        for g in group_count.values():<br>            count += g  (g - 1)<br><br>    return count

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1779.txt
> def nearestValidPoint(x: int, y: int, points: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    """You are given two integers, `x` and `y`, which represent your current location on a Cartesian grid: `(x, y)`. You are also given an array `points` where each `points[i] = [ai, bi]` represents that a point exists at `(ai, bi)`. A point is valid if it shares the same x-coordinate or the same y-coordinate as your location.<br><br>Return _the index (0-indexed) of the valid point with the smallest Manhattan distance from your current location_. If there are multiple, return _the valid point with the smallest index_. If there are no valid points, return `-1`.<br><br>The Manhattan distance between two points `(x1, y1)` and `(x2, y2)` is `abs(x1 - x2) + abs(y1 - y2)`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[1,2\],\[3,1\],\[2,4\],\[2,3\],\[4,4\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Of all the points, only \[3,1\], \[2,4\] and \[4,4\] are valid. Of the valid points, \[2,4\] and \[4,4\] have the smallest Manhattan distance from your current location, with a distance of 1. \[2,4\] has the smallest index, so return 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The answer is allowed to be on the same location as your current location.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There are no valid points.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 104`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= x, y, ai, bi <= 104`"""<br><br>    min_distance = float("inf")<br>    index = -1<br>    for i, point in enumerate(points):<br>        if x == point[0] or y == point[1]:<br>            distance = abs(x - point[0]) + abs(y - point[1])<br>            if distance < min_distance:<br>                min_distance = distance<br>                index = i<br>    return index

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1620.txt
> def canArrange(arr, k):<br>    """You are given an array of network towers `towers`, where `towers[i] = [xi, yi, qi]` denotes the `ith` network tower with location `(xi, yi)` and quality factor `qi`. All the coordinates are integral coordinates on the X-Y plane, and the distance between the two coordinates is the Euclidean distance.<br><br>You are also given an integer `radius` where a tower is reachable if the distance is less than or equal to `radius`. Outside that distance, the signal becomes garbled, and the tower is not reachable.<br><br>The signal quality of the `ith` tower at a coordinate `(x, y)` is calculated with the formula `⌊qi / (1 + d)⌋`, where `d` is the distance between the tower and the coordinate. The network quality at a coordinate is the sum of the signal qualities from all the reachable towers.<br><br>Return _the array_ `[cx, cy]` _representing the integral coordinate_ `(cx, cy)` _where the network quality is maximum. If there are multiple coordinates with the same network quality, return the lexicographically minimum non-negative coordinate._<br><br>Note:<br><br>   A coordinate `(x1, y1)` is lexicographically smaller than `(x2, y2)` if either:<br>       `x1 < x2`, or<br>       `x1 == x2` and `y1 < y2`.<br>   `⌊val⌋` is the greatest integer less than or equal to `val` (the floor function).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[1,2,5\],\[2,1,7\],\[3,1,9\]\], radius = 2<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br>Explanation: At coordinate (2, 1) the total quality is 13.<br>- Quality of 7 from (2, 1) results in ⌊7 / (1 + sqrt(0)⌋ = ⌊7⌋ = 7<br>- Quality of 5 from (1, 2) results in ⌊5 / (1 + sqrt(2)⌋ = ⌊2.07⌋ = 2<br>- Quality of 9 from (3, 1) results in ⌊9 / (1 + sqrt(1)⌋ = ⌊4.5⌋ = 4<br>No other coordinate has a higher network quality.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[23,11,21\]\], radius = 9<br>Output: \[23,11\]<br>Explanation: Since there is only one tower, the network quality is highest right at the tower's location.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: towers = \[\[1,2,13\],\[2,1,7\],\[0,1,9\]\], radius = 2<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: Coordinate (1, 2) has the highest network quality.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= towers.length <= 50`<br>   `towers[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi, qi <= 50`<br>   `1 <= radius <= 50`"""<br><br>    counts = [0]  k<br>    for num in arr:<br>        counts[(num % k + k) % k] += 1<br>    if counts[0] % 2 != 0:<br>        return False<br>    for i in range(1, k // 2 + 1):<br>        if counts[i] != counts[k - i]:<br>            return False<br>    return True

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_874.txt
> def backspace_compare(s, t):<br>    """A robot on an infinite XY-plane starts at point `(0, 0)` facing north. The robot can receive a sequence of these three possible types of `commands`:<br><br>   `-2`: Turn left `90` degrees.<br>   `-1`: Turn right `90` degrees.<br>   `1 <= k <= 9`: Move forward `k` units, one unit at a time.<br><br>Some of the grid squares are `obstacles`. The `ith` obstacle is at grid point `obstacles[i] = (xi, yi)`. If the robot runs into an obstacle, then it will instead stay in its current location and move on to the next command.<br><br>Return _the maximum Euclidean distance that the robot ever gets from the origin squared (i.e. if the distance is_ `5`_, return_ `25`_)_.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   North means +Y direction.<br>   East means +X direction.<br>   South means -Y direction.<br>   West means -X direction.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: commands = \[4,-1,3\], obstacles = \[\]<br>Output: 25<br>Explanation: The robot starts at (0, 0):<br>1. Move north 4 units to (0, 4).<br>2. Turn right.<br>3. Move east 3 units to (3, 4).<br>The furthest point the robot ever gets from the origin is (3, 4), which squared is 32 + 42 = 25 units away.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: commands = \[4,-1,4,-2,4\], obstacles = \[\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: 65<br>Explanation: The robot starts at (0, 0):<br>1. Move north 4 units to (0, 4).<br>2. Turn right.<br>3. Move east 1 unit and get blocked by the obstacle at (2, 4), robot is at (1, 4).<br>4. Turn left.<br>5. Move north 4 units to (1, 8).<br>The furthest point the robot ever gets from the origin is (1, 8), which squared is 12 + 82 = 65 units away.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: commands = \[6,-1,-1,6\], obstacles = \[\]<br>Output: 36<br>Explanation: The robot starts at (0, 0):<br>1. Move north 6 units to (0, 6).<br>2. Turn right.<br>3. Turn right.<br>4. Move south 6 units to (0, 0).<br>The furthest point the robot ever gets from the origin is (0, 6), which squared is 62 = 36 units away.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= commands.length <= 104`<br>   `commands[i]` is either `-2`, `-1`, or an integer in the range `[1, 9]`.<br>   `0 <= obstacles.length <= 104`<br>   `-3  104 <= xi, yi <= 3  104`<br>   The answer is guaranteed to be less than `231`."""<br><br>    def process_backspaces(string):<br>        stack = []<br>        for c in string:<br>            if c != '#':<br>                stack.append(c)<br>            elif stack:<br>                stack.pop()<br>        return stack<br><br>    return process_backspaces(s) == process_backspaces(t)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1499.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given an array `points` containing the coordinates of points on a 2D plane, sorted by the x-values, where `points[i] = [xi, yi]` such that `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`. You are also given an integer `k`.<br><br>Return _the maximum value of the equation_ `yi + yj + |xi - xj|` where `|xi - xj| <= k` and `1 <= i < j <= points.length`.<br><br>It is guaranteed that there exists at least one pair of points that satisfy the constraint `|xi - xj| <= k`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,3\],\[2,0\],\[5,10\],\[6,-10\]\], k = 1<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The first two points satisfy the condition |xi - xj| <= 1 and if we calculate the equation we get 3 + 0 + |1 - 2| = 4. Third and fourth points also satisfy the condition and give a value of 10 + -10 + |5 - 6| = 1.<br>No other pairs satisfy the condition, so we return the max of 4 and 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[3,0\],\[9,2\]\], k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Only the first two points have an absolute difference of 3 or less in the x-values, and give the value of 0 + 0 + |0 - 3| = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= points.length <= 105`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `-108 <= xi, yi <= 108`<br>   `0 <= k <= 2  108`<br>   `xi < xj` for all `1 <= i < j <= points.length`<br>   `xi` form a strictly increasing sequence."""<br><br><br>def max_performance(n, k, speed, efficiency):<br>    engineers = sorted(zip(efficiency, speed), reverse=True)<br><br>    result = 0<br>    sum_speed = 0<br>    min_heap = []<br>    for e, s in engineers:<br>        if len(min_heap) = k:<br>            sum_speed -= heapq.heappop(min_heap)<br><br>        heapq.heappush(min_heap, s)<br>        sum_speed += s<br>        result = max(result, e  sum_speed)<br><br>    return result % (109 + 7)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_215.txt
> def findKthLargest(nums: List[int], k: int) - int:<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the_ `kth` _largest element in the array_.<br><br>Note that it is the `kth` largest element in the sorted order, not the `kth` distinct element.<br><br>You must solve it in `O(n)` time complexity.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,1,5,6,4\], k = 2<br>Output: 5<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,2,3,1,2,4,5,5,6\], k = 4<br>Output: 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    nums.sort(reverse=True)<br>    return nums[k-1]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_347.txt
> from heapq import heappush, heappop<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the_ `k` _most frequent elements_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,1,1,2,2,3\], k = 2<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1\], k = 1<br>Output: \[1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br>   `k` is in the range `[1, the number of unique elements in the array]`.<br>   It is guaranteed that the answer is unique.<br><br>Follow up: Your algorithm's time complexity must be better than `O(n log n)`, where n is the array's size."""<br><br>from collections import Counter<br><br>def k_most_frequent(nums, k):<br>    frequency = Counter(nums)<br>    min_heap = []<br><br>    for num, freq in frequency.items():<br>        heappush(min_heap, (freq, num))<br>        if len(min_heap)  k:<br>            heappop(min_heap)<br><br>    return [heappop(min_heap)[1] for _ in range(k)]

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_692.txt
> import heapq<br>    """Given an array of strings `words` and an integer `k`, return _the_ `k` _most frequent strings_.<br><br>Return the answer sorted by the frequency from highest to lowest. Sort the words with the same frequency by their lexicographical order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "i ", "love ", "leetcode ", "i ", "love ", "coding "\], k = 2<br>Output: \[ "i ", "love "\]<br>Explanation:  "i " and  "love " are the two most frequent words.<br>Note that  "i " comes before  "love " due to a lower alphabetical order.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "the ", "day ", "is ", "sunny ", "the ", "the ", "the ", "sunny ", "is ", "is "\], k = 4<br>Output: \[ "the ", "is ", "sunny ", "day "\]<br>Explanation:  "the ",  "is ",  "sunny " and  "day " are the four most frequent words, with the number of occurrence being 4, 3, 2 and 1 respectively.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= words.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= words[i].length <= 10`<br>   `words[i]` consists of lowercase English letters.<br>   `k` is in the range `[1, The number of unique words[i]]`<br><br>Follow-up: Could you solve it in `O(n log(k))` time and `O(n)` extra space?"""<br><br>from collections import Counter<br><br>def k_frequent_words(words, k):<br>    word_count = Counter(words)<br>    heap = [(-count, word) for word, count in word_count.items()]<br>    heapq.heapify(heap)<br><br>    result = []<br>    for _ in range(k):<br>        result.append(heapq.heappop(heap)[1])<br><br>    return result

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_1779.txt
> def nearestValidPoint(x: int, y: int, points: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    """You are given two integers, `x` and `y`, which represent your current location on a Cartesian grid: `(x, y)`. You are also given an array `points` where each `points[i] = [ai, bi]` represents that a point exists at `(ai, bi)`. A point is valid if it shares the same x-coordinate or the same y-coordinate as your location.<br><br>Return _the index (0-indexed) of the valid point with the smallest Manhattan distance from your current location_. If there are multiple, return _the valid point with the smallest index_. If there are no valid points, return `-1`.<br><br>The Manhattan distance between two points `(x1, y1)` and `(x2, y2)` is `abs(x1 - x2) + abs(y1 - y2)`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[1,2\],\[3,1\],\[2,4\],\[2,3\],\[4,4\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Of all the points, only \[3,1\], \[2,4\] and \[4,4\] are valid. Of the valid points, \[2,4\] and \[4,4\] have the smallest Manhattan distance from your current location, with a distance of 1. \[2,4\] has the smallest index, so return 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The answer is allowed to be on the same location as your current location.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: x = 3, y = 4, points = \[\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There are no valid points.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= points.length <= 104`<br>   `points[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= x, y, ai, bi <= 104`"""<br><br>    min_distance = float("inf")<br>    index = -1<br>    for i, point in enumerate(points):<br>        if x == point[0] or y == point[1]:<br>            distance = abs(x - point[0]) + abs(y - point[1])<br>            if distance < min_distance:<br>                min_distance = distance<br>                index = i<br>    return index
