# Query `51`

## Original Question

*Given an integer array `nums`, return _the largest perimeter of a triangle with a non-zero area, formed from three of these lengths_. If it is impossible to form any triangle of a non-zero area, return `0`.

Example 1:

Input: nums = \[2,1,2\]
Output: 5
Explanation: You can form a triangle with three side lengths: 1, 2, and 2.

Example 2:

Input: nums = \[1,2,1,10\]
Output: 0
Explanation: 
You cannot use the side lengths 1, 1, and 2 to form a triangle.
You cannot use the side lengths 1, 1, and 10 to form a triangle.
You cannot use the side lengths 1, 2, and 10 to form a triangle.
As we cannot use any three side lengths to form a triangle of non-zero area, we return 0.

Constraints:

   `3 <= nums.length <= 104`
   `1 <= nums[i] <= 106`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3869
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.2000
map_cut_10: 0.2000
map_cut_25: 0.2000
map_cut_50: 0.2000
map_cut_100: 0.2000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1031.txt
> def add_to_array_form(num, k):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and two integers `firstLen` and `secondLen`, return _the maximum sum of elements in two non-overlapping subarrays with lengths_ `firstLen` _and_ `secondLen`.<br><br>The array with length `firstLen` could occur before or after the array with length `secondLen`, but they have to be non-overlapping.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous part of an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,6,5,2,2,5,1,9,4\], firstLen = 1, secondLen = 2<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: One choice of subarrays is \[9\] with length 1, and \[6,5\] with length 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,8,1,3,2,1,8,9,0\], firstLen = 3, secondLen = 2<br>Output: 29<br>Explanation: One choice of subarrays is \[3,8,1\] with length 3, and \[8,9\] with length 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,1,5,6,0,9,5,0,3,8\], firstLen = 4, secondLen = 3<br>Output: 31<br>Explanation: One choice of subarrays is \[5,6,0,9\] with length 4, and \[0,3,8\] with length 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= firstLen, secondLen <= 1000`<br>   `2 <= firstLen + secondLen <= 1000`<br>   `firstLen + secondLen <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    for i in range(len(num) - 1, -1, -1):<br>        k, num[i] = divmod(num[i] + k, 10)<br>        if k == 0:<br>            break<br>    while k:<br>        k, digit = divmod(k, 10)<br>        num.insert(0, digit)<br>    return num

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1477.txt
> class ProductOfNumbers:<br>    """You are given an array of integers `arr` and an integer `target`.<br><br>You have to find two non-overlapping sub-arrays of `arr` each with a sum equal `target`. There can be multiple answers so you have to find an answer where the sum of the lengths of the two sub-arrays is minimum.<br><br>Return _the minimum sum of the lengths_ of the two required sub-arrays, or return `-1` if you cannot find such two sub-arrays.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[3,2,2,4,3\], target = 3<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Only two sub-arrays have sum = 3 (\[3\] and \[3\]). The sum of their lengths is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[7,3,4,7\], target = 7<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Although we have three non-overlapping sub-arrays of sum = 7 (\[7\], \[3,4\] and \[7\]), but we will choose the first and third sub-arrays as the sum of their lengths is 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: arr = \[4,3,2,6,2,3,4\], target = 6<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: We have only one sub-array of sum = 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= arr[i] <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= target <= 108`"""<br><br>    def __init__(self):<br>        self.products = [1]<br><br>    def add(self, num: int) - None:<br>        if num == 0:<br>            self.products = [1]<br>        else:<br>            self.products.append(self.products[-1]  num)<br><br>    def getProduct(self, k: int) - int:<br>        if k = len(self.products):<br>            return 0<br>        else:<br>            return self.products[-1] // self.products[-k - 1]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_992.txt
> class Solution:<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return _the number of good subarrays of_ `nums`.<br><br>A good array is an array where the number of different integers in that array is exactly `k`.<br><br>   For example, `[1,2,3,1,2]` has `3` different integers: `1`, `2`, and `3`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous part of an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,1,2,3\], k = 2<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: Subarrays formed with exactly 2 different integers: \[1,2\], \[2,1\], \[1,2\], \[2,3\], \[1,2,1\], \[2,1,2\], \[1,2,1,2\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,1,3,4\], k = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Subarrays formed with exactly 3 different integers: \[1,2,1,3\], \[2,1,3\], \[1,3,4\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 2  104`<br>   `1 <= nums[i], k <= nums.length`"""<br><br>    def minDeletionSize(self, strs: List[str]) - int:<br>        n = len(strs)<br>        m = len(strs[0])<br>        dp = [1]  m<br><br>        for j in range(m):<br>            for i in range(j):<br>                flag = all(strs[k][i] <= strs[k][j] for k in range(n - 1))<br>                dp[j] = max(dp[j], dp[i] + 1) if flag else dp[j]<br><br>        return m - max(dp)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1425.txt
> def maxSum(nums, k):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, return the maximum sum of a non-empty subsequence of that array such that for every two consecutive integers in the subsequence, `nums[i]` and `nums[j]`, where `i < j`, the condition `j - i <= k` is satisfied.<br><br>A _subsequence_ of an array is obtained by deleting some number of elements (can be zero) from the array, leaving the remaining elements in their original order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,2,-10,5,20\], k = 2<br>Output: 37<br>Explanation: The subsequence is \[10, 2, 5, 20\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[-1,-2,-3\], k = 1<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: The subsequence must be non-empty, so we choose the largest number.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,-2,-10,-5,20\], k = 2<br>Output: 23<br>Explanation: The subsequence is \[10, -2, -5, 20\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    dp = [0]  (n + 1)<br>    pq = []<br>    sum_ = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if i = k:<br>            pq.remove(-(dp[i] - nums[i]))  # Remove element from pq<br>        heapq.heappush(pq, -(dp[i] - nums[i]))  # Push in the negative for max heap<br>        dp[i + 1] = max(dp[i], nums[i] - pq[0])<br>        sum_ = max(sum_, dp[i + 1])<br><br>    return sum_

### DOC[5] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_812.txt
> def is_shifted(s, goal):<br>    """Given an array of points on the X-Y plane `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]`, return _the area of the largest triangle that can be formed by any three different points_. Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[0,2\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 2.00000<br>Explanation: The five points are shown in the above figure. The red triangle is the largest.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,0\],\[0,0\],\[0,1\]\]<br>Output: 0.50000<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= points.length <= 50`<br>   `-50 <= xi, yi <= 50`<br>   All the given points are unique."""<br><br>    if len(s) != len(goal): return False<br><br>    s = s + s<br>    return goal in s


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 4, leetcode/leetcode_812.txt
> def is_shifted(s, goal):<br>    """Given an array of points on the X-Y plane `points` where `points[i] = [xi, yi]`, return _the area of the largest triangle that can be formed by any three different points_. Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[0,2\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 2.00000<br>Explanation: The five points are shown in the above figure. The red triangle is the largest.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: points = \[\[1,0\],\[0,0\],\[0,1\]\]<br>Output: 0.50000<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= points.length <= 50`<br>   `-50 <= xi, yi <= 50`<br>   All the given points are unique."""<br><br>    if len(s) != len(goal): return False<br><br>    s = s + s<br>    return goal in s
