# Query `52`

## Original Question

*You are given the `root` of a binary tree with `n` nodes where each `node` in the tree has `node.val` coins. There are `n` coins in total throughout the whole tree.

In one move, we may choose two adjacent nodes and move one coin from one node to another. A move may be from parent to child, or from child to parent.

Return _the minimum number of moves required to make every node have exactly one coin_.

Example 1:

Input: root = \[3,0,0\]
Output: 2
Explanation: From the root of the tree, we move one coin to its left child, and one coin to its right child.

Example 2:

Input: root = \[0,3,0\]
Output: 3
Explanation: From the left child of the root, we move two coins to the root \[taking two moves\]. Then, we move one coin from the root of the tree to the right child.

Constraints:

   The number of nodes in the tree is `n`.
   `1 <= n <= 100`
   `0 <= Node.val <= n`
   The sum of all `Node.val` is `n`.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0016
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2603.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with `n` nodes indexed from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array edges of length `n - 1`, where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree. You are also given an array `coins` of size `n` where `coins[i]` can be either `0` or `1`, where `1` indicates the presence of a coin in the vertex `i`.<br><br>Initially, you choose to start at any vertex in the tree. Then, you can perform the following operations any number of times:<br><br>   Collect all the coins that are at a distance of at most `2` from the current vertex, or<br>   Move to any adjacent vertex in the tree.<br><br>Find _the minimum number of edges you need to go through to collect all the coins and go back to the initial vertex_.<br><br>Note that if you pass an edge several times, you need to count it into the answer several times.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: coins = \[1,0,0,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 2, collect the coin at vertex 0, move to vertex 3, collect the coin at vertex 5 then move back to vertex 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: coins = \[0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,5\],\[5,6\],\[5,7\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Start at vertex 0, collect the coins at vertices 4 and 3, move to vertex 2,  collect the coin at vertex 7, then move back to vertex 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == coins.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `0 <= coins[i] <= 1`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree."""<br><br><br>def min_edges_to_collect_coins(coins, edges):<br>    adj = defaultdict(list)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        adj[a].append(b)<br>        adj[b].append(a)<br>    return dfs(adj, coins, 0, -1)[1] // 2<br><br>def dfs(adj, coins, node, parent):<br>    sum_coins = coins[node]<br>    distance = 0<br>    for neighbor in adj[node]:<br>        if neighbor != parent:<br>            result = dfs(adj, coins, neighbor, node)<br>            sum_coins += result[0]<br>            distance += 2  result[0] + result[1]<br>    return (sum_coins, distance)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2218.txt
> import heapq<br>    """There are `n` piles of coins on a table. Each pile consists of a positive number of coins of assorted denominations.<br><br>In one move, you can choose any coin on top of any pile, remove it, and add it to your wallet.<br><br>Given a list `piles`, where `piles[i]` is a list of integers denoting the composition of the `ith` pile from top to bottom, and a positive integer `k`, return _the maximum total value of coins you can have in your wallet if you choose exactly_ `k` _coins optimally_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: piles = \[\[1,100,3\],\[7,8,9\]\], k = 2<br>Output: 101<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram shows the different ways we can choose k coins.<br>The maximum total we can obtain is 101.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: piles = \[\[100\],\[100\],\[100\],\[100\],\[100\],\[100\],\[1,1,1,1,1,1,700\]\], k = 7<br>Output: 706<br>Explanation:<br>The maximum total can be obtained if we choose all coins from the last pile.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == piles.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= piles[i][j] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= k <= sum(piles[i].length) <= 2000`"""<br><br><br>def maxCoins(piles, k):<br>    pq = []<br>    for pile in piles:<br>        for coin in pile:<br>            heapq.heappush(pq, -coin)<br>    <br>    max_value = 0<br>    while k  0:<br>        max_value += -heapq.heappop(pq)<br>        k -= 1<br>    return max_value

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_517.txt
> def find_min_moves(machines):<br>    """You have `n` super washing machines on a line. Initially, each washing machine has some dresses or is empty.<br><br>For each move, you could choose any `m` (`1 <= m <= n`) washing machines, and pass one dress of each washing machine to one of its adjacent washing machines at the same time.<br><br>Given an integer array `machines` representing the number of dresses in each washing machine from left to right on the line, return _the minimum number of moves to make all the washing machines have the same number of dresses_. If it is not possible to do it, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: machines = \[1,0,5\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>1st move:    1     0 <-- 5    =    1     1     4<br>2nd move:    1 <-- 1 <-- 4    =    2     1     3<br>3rd move:    2     1 <-- 3    =    2     2     2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: machines = \[0,3,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>1st move:    0 <-- 3     0    =    1     2     0<br>2nd move:    1     2 -- 0    =    1     1     1<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: machines = \[0,2,0\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>It's impossible to make all three washing machines have the same number of dresses.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == machines.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `0 <= machines[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    n = len(machines)<br>    total_dresses = sum(machines)<br>    if total_dresses % n != 0:<br>        return -1<br>    average = total_dresses // n<br>    moves = 0<br>    imbalance = 0<br>    <br>    for i in range(n):<br>        imbalance += machines[i] - average<br>        moves = max(moves, abs(imbalance), machines[i] - average)<br>        <br>    return moves

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_904.txt
> def leafSimilar(root1, root2):<br>    """You are visiting a farm that has a single row of fruit trees arranged from left to right. The trees are represented by an integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i]` is the type of fruit the `ith` tree produces.<br><br>You want to collect as much fruit as possible. However, the owner has some strict rules that you must follow:<br><br>   You only have two baskets, and each basket can only hold a single type of fruit. There is no limit on the amount of fruit each basket can hold.<br>   Starting from any tree of your choice, you must pick exactly one fruit from every tree (including the start tree) while moving to the right. The picked fruits must fit in one of your baskets.<br>   Once you reach a tree with fruit that cannot fit in your baskets, you must stop.<br><br>Given the integer array `fruits`, return _the maximum number of fruits you can pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[1,2,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can pick from all 3 trees.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[0,1,2,2\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can pick from trees \[1,2,2\].<br>If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[0,1\].<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[1,2,3,2,2\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: We can pick from trees \[2,3,2,2\].<br>If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[1,2\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= fruits[i] < fruits.length`"""<br><br>    def getLeaves(node):<br>        if not node:<br>            return []<br>        if not node.left and not node.right:<br>            return [node.val]<br>        return getLeaves(node.left) + getLeaves(node.right)<br><br>    return getLeaves(root1) == getLeaves(root2)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_893.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """You are given an array of strings of the same length `words`.<br><br>In one move, you can swap any two even indexed characters or any two odd indexed characters of a string `words[i]`.<br><br>Two strings `words[i]` and `words[j]` are special-equivalent if after any number of moves, `words[i] == words[j]`.<br><br>   For example, `words[i] = "zzxy "` and `words[j] = "xyzz "` are special-equivalent because we may make the moves `"zzxy " - "xzzy " - "xyzz "`.<br><br>A group of special-equivalent strings from `words` is a non-empty subset of words such that:<br><br>   Every pair of strings in the group are special equivalent, and<br>   The group is the largest size possible (i.e., there is not a string `words[i]` not in the group such that `words[i]` is special-equivalent to every string in the group).<br><br>Return _the number of groups of special-equivalent strings from_ `words`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "abcd ", "cdab ", "cbad ", "xyzz ", "zzxy ", "zzyx "\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: <br>One group is \[ "abcd ",  "cdab ",  "cbad "\], since they are all pairwise special equivalent, and none of the other strings is all pairwise special equivalent to these.<br>The other two groups are \[ "xyzz ",  "zzxy "\] and \[ "zzyx "\].<br>Note that in particular,  "zzxy " is not special equivalent to  "zzyx ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "abc ", "acb ", "bac ", "bca ", "cab ", "cba "\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= words.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= words[i].length <= 20`<br>   `words[i]` consist of lowercase English letters.<br>   All the strings are of the same length."""<br><br><br>class TreeNode:<br>    def __init__(self, x):<br>        self.val = x<br>        self.left = None<br>        self.right = None<br><br>def find_nodes_at_distance_k(root, target_val, k):<br>    if k < 0:<br>        return []<br><br>    parent_map = defaultdict(lambda: None)<br>    visited = set()<br>    target_node = initialize_parent_map(root, None, target_val, parent_map)<br><br>    result = []<br>    find_nodes_at_distance_k_helper(target_node, k, visited, parent_map, result)<br>    return result<br><br>def initialize_parent_map(node, parent, target_val, parent_map):<br>    if not node:<br>        return None<br>    if node.val == target_val:<br>        return node<br><br>    parent_map[node] = parent<br>    left = initialize_parent_map(node.left, node, target_val, parent_map)<br>    right = initialize_parent_map(node.right, node, target_val, parent_map)<br>    return left if left else right<br><br>def find_nodes_at_distance_k_helper(node, k, visited, parent_map, result):<br>    if not node or node in visited:<br>        return<br><br>    visited.add(node)<br>    if k == 0:<br>        result.append(node.val)<br>        return<br><br>    find_nodes_at_distance_k_helper(node.left, k-1, visited, parent_map, result)<br>    find_nodes_at_distance_k_helper(node.right, k-1, visited, parent_map, result)<br>    find_nodes_at_distance_k_helper(parent_map[node], k-1, visited, parent_map, result)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_834.txt
> def ambiguousCoordinates(s):<br>    """There is an undirected connected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and `n - 1` edges.<br><br>You are given the integer `n` and the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>Return an array `answer` of length `n` where `answer[i]` is the sum of the distances between the `ith` node in the tree and all other nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: \[8,12,6,10,10,10\]<br>Explanation: The tree is shown above.<br>We can see that dist(0,1) + dist(0,2) + dist(0,3) + dist(0,4) + dist(0,5)<br>equals 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8.<br>Hence, answer\[0\] = 8, and so on.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, edges = \[\]<br>Output: \[0\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   The given input represents a valid tree."""<br><br>    def generateNumber(s):<br>        if not s or (len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0' and s[-1] == '0'):<br>            return []<br>        if len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0':<br>            return ["0." + s[1:]]<br>        res = [s]<br>        if len(s) == 1 or s[-1] == '0':<br>            return res<br>        for i in range(1, len(s)):<br>            res.append(s[:i] + "." + s[i:])<br>        return res<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    res = []<br>    <br>    for i in range(2, n - 1):<br>        first = generateNumber(s[1:i])<br>        second = generateNumber(s[i:n - 1])<br>        <br>        for f in first:<br>            for sec in second:<br>                res.append("(" + f + ", " + sec + ")")<br>    <br>    return res
