# Query `55`

## Original Question

*There are `n` piles of `stones` arranged in a row. The `ith` pile has `stones[i]` stones.

A move consists of merging exactly `k` consecutive piles into one pile, and the cost of this move is equal to the total number of stones in these `k` piles.

Return _the minimum cost to merge all piles of stones into one pile_. If it is impossible, return `-1`.

Example 1:

Input: stones = \[3,2,4,1\], k = 2
Output: 20
Explanation: We start with \[3, 2, 4, 1\].
We merge \[3, 2\] for a cost of 5, and we are left with \[5, 4, 1\].
We merge \[4, 1\] for a cost of 5, and we are left with \[5, 5\].
We merge \[5, 5\] for a cost of 10, and we are left with \[10\].
The total cost was 20, and this is the minimum possible.

Example 2:

Input: stones = \[3,2,4,1\], k = 3
Output: -1
Explanation: After any merge operation, there are 2 piles left, and we can't merge anymore.  So the task is impossible.

Example 3:

Input: stones = \[3,5,1,2,6\], k = 3
Output: 25
Explanation: We start with \[3, 5, 1, 2, 6\].
We merge \[5, 1, 2\] for a cost of 8, and we are left with \[3, 8, 6\].
We merge \[3, 8, 6\] for a cost of 17, and we are left with \[17\].
The total cost was 25, and this is the minimum possible.

Constraints:

   `n == stones.length`
   `1 <= n <= 30`
   `1 <= stones[i] <= 100`
   `2 <= k <= 30`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0042
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1962.txt
> from queue import PriorityQueue<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `piles`, where `piles[i]` represents the number of stones in the `ith` pile, and an integer `k`. You should apply the following operation exactly `k` times:<br><br>   Choose any `piles[i]` and remove `floor(piles[i] / 2)` stones from it.<br><br>Notice that you can apply the operation on the same pile more than once.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible total number of stones remaining after applying the_ `k` _operations_.<br><br>`floor(x)` is the greatest integer that is smaller than or equal to `x` (i.e., rounds `x` down).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: piles = \[5,4,9\], k = 2<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: Steps of a possible scenario are:<br>- Apply the operation on pile 2. The resulting piles are \[5,4,5\].<br>- Apply the operation on pile 0. The resulting piles are \[3,4,5\].<br>The total number of stones in \[3,4,5\] is 12.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: piles = \[4,3,6,7\], k = 3<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: Steps of a possible scenario are:<br>- Apply the operation on pile 2. The resulting piles are \[4,3,3,7\].<br>- Apply the operation on pile 3. The resulting piles are \[4,3,3,4\].<br>- Apply the operation on pile 0. The resulting piles are \[2,3,3,4\].<br>The total number of stones in \[2,3,3,4\] is 12.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= piles.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= piles[i] <= 104`<br>   `1 <= k <= 105`"""<br><br><br>def getOrder(tasks):<br>    task_indices = sorted(range(len(tasks)), key=lambda i: tasks[i][0])<br>    min_heap = PriorityQueue()<br>    time = 0<br>    task_idx = 0<br>    result = []<br><br>    while task_indices:<br>        while task_idx < len(task_indices) and tasks[task_indices[task_idx]][0] <= time:<br>            idx = task_indices[task_idx]<br>            min_heap.put((tasks[idx][1], idx))<br>            task_idx += 1<br><br>        if not min_heap.empty():<br>            processing_time, index = min_heap.get()<br>            time += processing_time<br>            result.append(index)<br>            task_indices.remove(index)<br>        elif task_idx < len(task_indices):<br>            time = max(time, tasks[task_indices[task_idx]][0])<br><br>    return result

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1040.txt
> def insertIntoMaxTree(self, root: TreeNode, val: int) - TreeNode:<br>    """There are some stones in different positions on the X-axis. You are given an integer array `stones`, the positions of the stones.<br><br>Call a stone an endpoint stone if it has the smallest or largest position. In one move, you pick up an endpoint stone and move it to an unoccupied position so that it is no longer an endpoint stone.<br><br>   In particular, if the stones are at say, `stones = [1,2,5]`, you cannot move the endpoint stone at position `5`, since moving it to any position (such as `0`, or `3`) will still keep that stone as an endpoint stone.<br><br>The game ends when you cannot make any more moves (i.e., the stones are in three consecutive positions).<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _of length_ `2` _where_:<br><br>   `answer[0]` _is the minimum number of moves you can play, and_<br>   `answer[1]` _is the maximum number of moves you can play_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,4,9\]<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: We can move 4 - 8 for one move to finish the game.<br>Or, we can move 9 - 5, 4 - 6 for two moves to finish the game.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[6,5,4,3,10\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation: We can move 3 - 8 then 10 - 7 to finish the game.<br>Or, we can move 3 - 7, 4 - 8, 5 - 9 to finish the game.<br>Notice we cannot move 10 - 2 to finish the game, because that would be an illegal move.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= stones.length <= 104`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 109`<br>   All the values of `stones` are unique."""<br><br>    if root is None or val  root.val:<br>        newNode = TreeNode(val)<br>        newNode.left = root<br>        return newNode<br>    root.right = self.insertIntoMaxTree(root.right, val)<br>    return root

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2498.txt
> def minimum_path_cost(stones):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `stones` sorted in strictly increasing order representing the positions of stones in a river.<br><br>A frog, initially on the first stone, wants to travel to the last stone and then return to the first stone. However, it can jump to any stone at most once.<br><br>The length of a jump is the absolute difference between the position of the stone the frog is currently on and the position of the stone to which the frog jumps.<br><br>   More formally, if the frog is at `stones[i]` and is jumping to `stones[j]`, the length of the jump is `|stones[i] - stones[j]|`.<br><br>The cost of a path is the maximum length of a jump among all jumps in the path.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost of a path for the frog_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,2,5,6,7\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The above figure represents one of the optimal paths the frog can take.<br>The cost of this path is 5, which is the maximum length of a jump.<br>Since it is not possible to achieve a cost of less than 5, we return it.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,3,9\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The frog can jump directly to the last stone and come back to the first stone. <br>In this case, the length of each jump will be 9. The cost for the path will be max(9, 9) = 9.<br>It can be shown that this is the minimum achievable cost.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= stones[i] <= 109`<br>   `stones[0] == 0`<br>   `stones` is sorted in a strictly increasing order."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    max_cost = stones[n-1]<br>    for i in range(1, n-1):<br>        max_cost = min(max_cost, max(stones[i], stones[n-1]-stones[i]))<br>    return max_cost

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1753.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are playing a solitaire game with three piles of stones of sizes `a`​​​​​​, `b`,​​​​​​ and `c`​​​​​​ respectively. Each turn you choose two different non-empty piles, take one stone from each, and add `1` point to your score. The game stops when there are fewer than two non-empty piles (meaning there are no more available moves).<br><br>Given three integers `a`​​​​​, `b`,​​​​​ and `c`​​​​​, return _the_ _maximum_ _score you can get._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: a = 2, b = 4, c = 6<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The starting state is (2, 4, 6). One optimal set of moves is:<br>- Take from 1st and 3rd piles, state is now (1, 4, 5)<br>- Take from 1st and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 4, 4)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 3, 3)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 2, 2)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 1, 1)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 0, 0)<br>There are fewer than two non-empty piles, so the game ends. Total: 6 points.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: a = 4, b = 4, c = 6<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: The starting state is (4, 4, 6). One optimal set of moves is:<br>- Take from 1st and 2nd piles, state is now (3, 3, 6)<br>- Take from 1st and 3rd piles, state is now (2, 3, 5)<br>- Take from 1st and 3rd piles, state is now (1, 3, 4)<br>- Take from 1st and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 3, 3)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 2, 2)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 1, 1)<br>- Take from 2nd and 3rd piles, state is now (0, 0, 0)<br>There are fewer than two non-empty piles, so the game ends. Total: 7 points.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: a = 1, b = 8, c = 8<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: One optimal set of moves is to take from the 2nd and 3rd piles for 8 turns until they are empty.<br>After that, there are fewer than two non-empty piles, so the game ends.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= a, b, c <= 105`"""<br><br>from typing import List<br><br>def minimumEffortPath(heights: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    directions = [(1, 0), (0, 1), (-1, 0), (0, -1)]<br>    rows = len(heights)<br>    cols = len(heights[0])<br>    efforts = [[float('inf')]  cols for _ in range(rows)]<br><br>    q = [(0, 0, 0)]<br>    efforts[0][0] = 0<br>    <br>    while q:<br>        effort, x, y = heapq.heappop(q)<br>        <br>        if x == rows - 1 and y == cols - 1:<br>            return effort<br>        <br>        for dx, dy in directions:<br>            nx, ny = x + dx, y + dy<br>            if 0 <= nx < rows and 0 <= ny < cols:<br>                new_effort = max(effort, abs(heights[nx][ny] - heights[x][y]))<br>                if new_effort < efforts[nx][ny]:<br>                    efforts[nx][ny] = new_effort<br>                    heapq.heappush(q, (new_effort, nx, ny))<br>    <br>    return -1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2202.txt
> def to_base_k(num, k):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` representing the contents of a pile, where `nums[0]` is the topmost element of the pile.<br><br>In one move, you can perform either of the following:<br><br>   If the pile is not empty, remove the topmost element of the pile.<br>   If there are one or more removed elements, add any one of them back onto the pile. This element becomes the new topmost element.<br><br>You are also given an integer `k`, which denotes the total number of moves to be made.<br><br>Return _the maximum value of the topmost element of the pile possible after exactly_ `k` _moves_. In case it is not possible to obtain a non-empty pile after `k` moves, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,2,2,4,0,6\], k = 4<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>One of the ways we can end with 5 at the top of the pile after 4 moves is as follows:<br>- Step 1: Remove the topmost element = 5. The pile becomes \[2,2,4,0,6\].<br>- Step 2: Remove the topmost element = 2. The pile becomes \[2,4,0,6\].<br>- Step 3: Remove the topmost element = 2. The pile becomes \[4,0,6\].<br>- Step 4: Add 5 back onto the pile. The pile becomes \[5,4,0,6\].<br>Note that this is not the only way to end with 5 at the top of the pile. It can be shown that 5 is the largest answer possible after 4 moves.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2\], k = 1<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: <br>In the first move, our only option is to pop the topmost element of the pile.<br>Since it is not possible to obtain a non-empty pile after one move, we return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums[i], k <= 109`"""<br><br>    base_k_num = ''<br>    while num:<br>        base_k_num = str(num % k) + base_k_num<br>        num //= k<br>    return base_k_num<br><br>def is_k_mirror(num, k):<br>    base_10_num = str(num)<br>    base_k_num = to_base_k(num, k)<br>    return base_10_num == base_10_num[::-1] and base_k_num == base_k_num[::-1]<br><br>def sum_k_mirror_numbers(k, n):<br>    total = 0<br>    num = 0<br>    while n:<br>        if is_k_mirror(num, k):<br>            total += num<br>            n -= 1<br>        num += 1<br>    return total


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_312.txt
> def maxCoins(nums):<br>    """You are given `n` balloons, indexed from `0` to `n - 1`. Each balloon is painted with a number on it represented by an array `nums`. You are asked to burst all the balloons.<br><br>If you burst the `ith` balloon, you will get `nums[i - 1]  nums[i]  nums[i + 1]` coins. If `i - 1` or `i + 1` goes out of bounds of the array, then treat it as if there is a balloon with a `1` painted on it.<br><br>Return _the maximum coins you can collect by bursting the balloons wisely_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,1,5,8\]<br>Output: 167<br>Explanation:<br>nums = \[3,1,5,8\] -- \[3,5,8\] -- \[3,8\] -- \[8\] -- \[\]<br>coins =  3\1\5    +   3\5\8   +  1\3\8  + 1\8\1 = 167<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,5\]<br>Output: 10<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 300`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    nums = [1] + nums + [1]<br>    n = len(nums)<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for length in range(1, n - 1):<br>        for left in range(1, n - length):<br>            right = left + length - 1<br>            for i in range(left, right + 1):<br>                dp[left][right] = max(dp[left][right], nums[left - 1]  nums[i]  nums[right + 1] + dp[left][i - 1] + dp[i + 1][right])<br><br>    return dp[1][n - 2]
