# Query `56`

## Original Question

*There are some stones in different positions on the X-axis. You are given an integer array `stones`, the positions of the stones.

Call a stone an endpoint stone if it has the smallest or largest position. In one move, you pick up an endpoint stone and move it to an unoccupied position so that it is no longer an endpoint stone.

   In particular, if the stones are at say, `stones = [1,2,5]`, you cannot move the endpoint stone at position `5`, since moving it to any position (such as `0`, or `3`) will still keep that stone as an endpoint stone.

The game ends when you cannot make any more moves (i.e., the stones are in three consecutive positions).

Return _an integer array_ `answer` _of length_ `2` _where_:

   `answer[0]` _is the minimum number of moves you can play, and_
   `answer[1]` _is the maximum number of moves you can play_.

Example 1:

Input: stones = \[7,4,9\]
Output: \[1,2\]
Explanation: We can move 4 -> 8 for one move to finish the game.
Or, we can move 9 -> 5, 4 -> 6 for two moves to finish the game.

Example 2:

Input: stones = \[6,5,4,3,10\]
Output: \[2,3\]
Explanation: We can move 3 -> 8 then 10 -> 7 to finish the game.
Or, we can move 3 -> 7, 4 -> 8, 5 -> 9 to finish the game.
Notice we cannot move 10 -> 2 to finish the game, because that would be an illegal move.

Constraints:

   `3 <= stones.length <= 104`
   `1 <= stones[i] <= 109`
   All the values of `stones` are unique.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0038
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1033.txt
> def broken_calc(startValue: int, target: int) - int:<br>    """There are three stones in different positions on the X-axis. You are given three integers `a`, `b`, and `c`, the positions of the stones.<br><br>In one move, you pick up a stone at an endpoint (i.e., either the lowest or highest position stone), and move it to an unoccupied position between those endpoints. Formally, let's say the stones are currently at positions `x`, `y`, and `z` with `x < y < z`. You pick up the stone at either position `x` or position `z`, and move that stone to an integer position `k`, with `x < k < z` and `k != y`.<br><br>The game ends when you cannot make any more moves (i.e., the stones are in three consecutive positions).<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _of length_ `2` _where_:<br><br>   `answer[0]` _is the minimum number of moves you can play, and_<br>   `answer[1]` _is the maximum number of moves you can play_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: a = 1, b = 2, c = 5<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: Move the stone from 5 to 3, or move the stone from 5 to 4 to 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: a = 4, b = 3, c = 2<br>Output: \[0,0\]<br>Explanation: We cannot make any moves.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: a = 3, b = 5, c = 1<br>Output: \[1,2\]<br>Explanation: Move the stone from 1 to 4; or move the stone from 1 to 2 to 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= a, b, c <= 100`<br>   `a`, `b`, and `c` have different values."""<br><br>    operations = 0<br>    while target  startValue:<br>        target = target // 2 if target % 2 == 0 else target + 1<br>        operations += 1<br>    return operations + startValue - target

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_947.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """On a 2D plane, we place `n` stones at some integer coordinate points. Each coordinate point may have at most one stone.<br><br>A stone can be removed if it shares either the same row or the same column as another stone that has not been removed.<br><br>Given an array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i] = [xi, yi]` represents the location of the `ith` stone, return _the largest possible number of stones that can be removed_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: One way to remove 5 stones is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,1\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,1\] because it shares the same column as \[0,1\].<br>3. Remove stone \[1,2\] because it shares the same row as \[1,0\].<br>4. Remove stone \[1,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>5. Remove stone \[0,1\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stone \[0,0\] cannot be removed since it does not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,2\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One way to make 3 moves is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,0\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>3. Remove stone \[0,2\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stones \[0,0\] and \[1,1\] cannot be removed since they do not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: \[0,0\] is the only stone on the plane, so you cannot remove it.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   No two stones are at the same coordinate point."""<br><br>from bisect import bisect<br><br>class TopVotedCandidate:<br><br>    def __init__(self, persons, times):<br>        self.leader_map = {}<br>        self.times = times<br>        votes = defaultdict(int)<br>        leader = -1<br>        for i, t in enumerate(times):<br>            votes[persons[i]] += 1<br>            if votes[persons[i]] = votes[leader]:<br>                leader = persons[i]<br>            self.leader_map[t] = leader<br><br>    def q(self, t):<br>        idx = bisect.bisect(self.times, t)<br>        return self.times[idx - 1]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1049.txt
> def min_rotations(tops, bottoms):<br>    """You are given an array of integers `stones` where `stones[i]` is the weight of the `ith` stone.<br><br>We are playing a game with the stones. On each turn, we choose any two stones and smash them together. Suppose the stones have weights `x` and `y` with `x <= y`. The result of this smash is:<br><br>   If `x == y`, both stones are destroyed, and<br>   If `x != y`, the stone of weight `x` is destroyed, and the stone of weight `y` has new weight `y - x`.<br><br>At the end of the game, there is at most one stone left.<br><br>Return _the smallest possible weight of the left stone_. If there are no stones left, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2,7,4,1,8,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>We can combine 2 and 4 to get 2, so the array converts to \[2,7,1,8,1\] then,<br>we can combine 7 and 8 to get 1, so the array converts to \[2,1,1,1\] then,<br>we can combine 2 and 1 to get 1, so the array converts to \[1,1,1\] then,<br>we can combine 1 and 1 to get 0, so the array converts to \[1\], then that's the optimal value.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[31,26,33,21,40\]<br>Output: 5<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 30`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    res = float('inf')<br><br>    for target in (tops[0], bottoms[0]):<br>        top_rot, bot_rot = 0, 0<br>        for ti, bi in zip(tops, bottoms):<br>            if ti != target and bi != target:<br>                top_rot = bot_rot = float('inf')<br>                break<br>            top_rot += ti != target<br>            bot_rot += bi != target<br><br>        res = min(res, top_rot, bot_rot)<br><br>    return -1 if res == float('inf') else res

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2498.txt
> def minimum_path_cost(stones):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `stones` sorted in strictly increasing order representing the positions of stones in a river.<br><br>A frog, initially on the first stone, wants to travel to the last stone and then return to the first stone. However, it can jump to any stone at most once.<br><br>The length of a jump is the absolute difference between the position of the stone the frog is currently on and the position of the stone to which the frog jumps.<br><br>   More formally, if the frog is at `stones[i]` and is jumping to `stones[j]`, the length of the jump is `|stones[i] - stones[j]|`.<br><br>The cost of a path is the maximum length of a jump among all jumps in the path.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost of a path for the frog_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,2,5,6,7\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The above figure represents one of the optimal paths the frog can take.<br>The cost of this path is 5, which is the maximum length of a jump.<br>Since it is not possible to achieve a cost of less than 5, we return it.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,3,9\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The frog can jump directly to the last stone and come back to the first stone. <br>In this case, the length of each jump will be 9. The cost for the path will be max(9, 9) = 9.<br>It can be shown that this is the minimum achievable cost.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= stones[i] <= 109`<br>   `stones[0] == 0`<br>   `stones` is sorted in a strictly increasing order."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    max_cost = stones[n-1]<br>    for i in range(1, n-1):<br>        max_cost = min(max_cost, max(stones[i], stones[n-1]-stones[i]))<br>    return max_cost

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1000.txt
> def min_deletion_size(strs):<br>    """There are `n` piles of `stones` arranged in a row. The `ith` pile has `stones[i]` stones.<br><br>A move consists of merging exactly `k` consecutive piles into one pile, and the cost of this move is equal to the total number of stones in these `k` piles.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost to merge all piles of stones into one pile_. If it is impossible, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[3,2,4,1\], k = 2<br>Output: 20<br>Explanation: We start with \[3, 2, 4, 1\].<br>We merge \[3, 2\] for a cost of 5, and we are left with \[5, 4, 1\].<br>We merge \[4, 1\] for a cost of 5, and we are left with \[5, 5\].<br>We merge \[5, 5\] for a cost of 10, and we are left with \[10\].<br>The total cost was 20, and this is the minimum possible.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[3,2,4,1\], k = 3<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: After any merge operation, there are 2 piles left, and we can't merge anymore.  So the task is impossible.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[3,5,1,2,6\], k = 3<br>Output: 25<br>Explanation: We start with \[3, 5, 1, 2, 6\].<br>We merge \[5, 1, 2\] for a cost of 8, and we are left with \[3, 8, 6\].<br>We merge \[3, 8, 6\] for a cost of 17, and we are left with \[17\].<br>The total cost was 25, and this is the minimum possible.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 30`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 100`<br>   `2 <= k <= 30`"""<br><br>    rows, cols = len(strs), len(strs[0])<br>    count = 0<br>    for c in range(cols):<br>        for r in range(1, rows):<br>            if strs[r - 1][c]  strs[r][c]:<br>                count += 1<br>                break<br>    return count


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2009.txt
> def min_operations(nums):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums`. In one operation, you can replace any element in `nums` with any integer.<br><br>`nums` is considered continuous if both of the following conditions are fulfilled:<br><br>   All elements in `nums` are unique.<br>   The difference between the maximum element and the minimum element in `nums` equals `nums.length - 1`.<br><br>For example, `nums = [4, 2, 5, 3]` is continuous, but `nums = [1, 2, 3, 5, 6]` is not continuous.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of operations to make_ `nums` _continuous_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,2,5,3\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: nums is already continuous.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,5,6\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: One possible solution is to change the last element to 4.<br>The resulting array is \[1,2,3,5,4\], which is continuous.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,10,100,1000\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One possible solution is to:<br>- Change the second element to 2.<br>- Change the third element to 3.<br>- Change the fourth element to 4.<br>The resulting array is \[1,2,3,4\], which is continuous.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    s = sorted(set(nums))<br>    res = float('inf')<br>    j = 0<br>    <br>    for i in range(len(s)):<br>        while j < len(s) and s[j] <= s[i] + n - 1:<br>            j += 1<br>        res = min(res, n - (j - i))<br>        <br>    return res
