# Query `59`

## Original Question

*Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:

   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.
   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.
   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.
   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.
   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.
   No more moves can be played if the game is over.

Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.

You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.

Example 1:

Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]
Output:  "A "
Explanation: A wins, they always play first.

Example 2:

Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]
Output:  "B "
Explanation: B wins.

Example 3:

Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]
Output:  "Draw "
Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.

Constraints:

   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`
   `moves[i].length == 2`
   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`
   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.
   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_947.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """On a 2D plane, we place `n` stones at some integer coordinate points. Each coordinate point may have at most one stone.<br><br>A stone can be removed if it shares either the same row or the same column as another stone that has not been removed.<br><br>Given an array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i] = [xi, yi]` represents the location of the `ith` stone, return _the largest possible number of stones that can be removed_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: One way to remove 5 stones is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,1\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,1\] because it shares the same column as \[0,1\].<br>3. Remove stone \[1,2\] because it shares the same row as \[1,0\].<br>4. Remove stone \[1,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>5. Remove stone \[0,1\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stone \[0,0\] cannot be removed since it does not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\],\[0,2\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One way to make 3 moves is as follows:<br>1. Remove stone \[2,2\] because it shares the same row as \[2,0\].<br>2. Remove stone \[2,0\] because it shares the same column as \[0,0\].<br>3. Remove stone \[0,2\] because it shares the same row as \[0,0\].<br>Stones \[0,0\] and \[1,1\] cannot be removed since they do not share a row/column with another stone still on the plane.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[\[0,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: \[0,0\] is the only stone on the plane, so you cannot remove it.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   No two stones are at the same coordinate point."""<br><br>from bisect import bisect<br><br>class TopVotedCandidate:<br><br>    def __init__(self, persons, times):<br>        self.leader_map = {}<br>        self.times = times<br>        votes = defaultdict(int)<br>        leader = -1<br>        for i, t in enumerate(times):<br>            votes[persons[i]] += 1<br>            if votes[persons[i]] = votes[leader]:<br>                leader = persons[i]<br>            self.leader_map[t] = leader<br><br>    def q(self, t):<br>        idx = bisect.bisect(self.times, t)<br>        return self.times[idx - 1]

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/csn_python_train_409571.txt
> def quadratic_2d(data):<br>    """<br>    Compute the quadratic estimate of the centroid in a 2d-array.<br><br>    Args:<br>        data (2darray): two dimensional data array<br><br>    Returns<br>        center (tuple): centroid estimate on the row and column directions,<br>                        respectively<br>    """<br>    arg_data_max = np.argmax(data)<br>    i, j = np.unravel_index(arg_data_max, data.shape)<br>    z_ = data[i-1:i+2, j-1:j+2]<br>    # our quadratic function is defined as<br>    # f(x, y | a, b, c, d, e, f) := a + b  x + c  y + d  x^2 + e  xy + f  y^2<br>    # therefore, the best fit coeffiecients are given as<br>    # note that they are unique and the uncertainty in each of them (#TODO) can be<br>    # computed following the derivations done by Vakili & Hogg (2016) and<br>    # Teague & Foreman-Mackey (2018)<br>    try:<br>        a = (-z_[0,0] + 2z_[0,1] - z_[0,2] + 2z_[1,0] + 5z_[1,1] + 2z_[1,2] -<br>             z_[2,0] + 2z_[2,1] - z_[2,2]) / 9<br>        b = (-z_[0,0] - z_[0,1] - z_[0,2] + z_[2,0] + z_[2,1] + z_[2,2]) / 6<br>        c = (-z_[0,0] + z_[0,2] - z_[1,0] + z_[1,2] - z_[2,0] + z_[2,2]) / 6<br>        d = (z_[0,0] + z_[0,1] + z_[0,2] - z_[1,0]2 - z_[1,1]2 - z_[1,2]2 +<br>             z_[2,0] + z_[2,1] + z_[2,2])/6<br>        e = (z_[0,0] - z_[0,2] - z_[2,0] + z_[2,2])  .25<br>        f = (z_[0,0] - 2  z_[0,1] + z_[0,2] + z_[1,0] - 2  z_[1,1] + z_[1,2] +<br>             z_[2,0] - 2  z_[2,1] + z_[2,2]) / 6<br>    except IndexError:<br>        return (i, j)<br><br>    # see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic_function<br>    det = 4  d  f - e  2<br>    xm = - (2  f  b - c  e) / det<br>    ym = - (2  d  c - b  e) / det<br>    return (i+xm, j+ym)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1406.txt
> def stoneGameIII(stoneValue):<br>    """Alice and Bob continue their games with piles of stones. There are several stones arranged in a row, and each stone has an associated value which is an integer given in the array `stoneValue`.<br><br>Alice and Bob take turns, with Alice starting first. On each player's turn, that player can take `1`, `2`, or `3` stones from the first remaining stones in the row.<br><br>The score of each player is the sum of the values of the stones taken. The score of each player is `0` initially.<br><br>The objective of the game is to end with the highest score, and the winner is the player with the highest score and there could be a tie. The game continues until all the stones have been taken.<br><br>Assume Alice and Bob play optimally.<br><br>Return `"Alice "` _if Alice will win,_ `"Bob "` _if Bob will win, or_ `"Tie "` _if they will end the game with the same score_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,7\]<br>Output:  "Bob "<br>Explanation: Alice will always lose. Her best move will be to take three piles and the score become 6. Now the score of Bob is 7 and Bob wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,-9\]<br>Output:  "Alice "<br>Explanation: Alice must choose all the three piles at the first move to win and leave Bob with negative score.<br>If Alice chooses one pile her score will be 1 and the next move Bob's score becomes 5. In the next move, Alice will take the pile with value = -9 and lose.<br>If Alice chooses two piles her score will be 3 and the next move Bob's score becomes 3. In the next move, Alice will take the pile with value = -9 and also lose.<br>Remember that both play optimally so here Alice will choose the scenario that makes her win.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: values = \[1,2,3,6\]<br>Output:  "Tie "<br>Explanation: Alice cannot win this game. She can end the game in a draw if she decided to choose all the first three piles, otherwise she will lose.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stoneValue.length <= 5  104`<br>   `-1000 <= stoneValue[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    n = len(stoneValue)<br>    dp = [float("-inf")]  (n + 1)<br>    dp[n] = 0<br>    <br>    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):<br>        curr = 0<br>        for j in range(3):<br>            if i + j < n:<br>                curr += stoneValue[i + j]<br>                dp[i] = max(dp[i], curr - dp[i + j + 1])<br>                <br>    return "Tie " if dp[0] == 0 else "Alice " if dp[0]  0 else "Bob "

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_913.txt
> import random<br>    """A game on an undirected graph is played by two players, Mouse and Cat, who alternate turns.<br><br>The graph is given as follows: `graph[a]` is a list of all nodes `b` such that `ab` is an edge of the graph.<br><br>The mouse starts at node `1` and goes first, the cat starts at node `2` and goes second, and there is a hole at node `0`.<br><br>During each player's turn, they must travel along one edge of the graph that meets where they are. For example, if the Mouse is at node 1, it must travel to any node in `graph[1]`.<br><br>Additionally, it is not allowed for the Cat to travel to the Hole (node 0.)<br><br>Then, the game can end in three ways:<br><br>   If ever the Cat occupies the same node as the Mouse, the Cat wins.<br>   If ever the Mouse reaches the Hole, the Mouse wins.<br>   If ever a position is repeated (i.e., the players are in the same position as a previous turn, and it is the same player's turn to move), the game is a draw.<br><br>Given a `graph`, and assuming both players play optimally, return<br><br>   `1` if the mouse wins the game,<br>   `2` if the cat wins the game, or<br>   `0` if the game is a draw.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[2,5\],\[3\],\[0,4,5\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,3\],\[0,2,3\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,3\],\[0\],\[3\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= graph.length <= 50`<br>   `1 <= graph[i].length < graph.length`<br>   `0 <= graph[i][j] < graph.length`<br>   `graph[i][j] != i`<br>   `graph[i]` is unique.<br>   The mouse and the cat can always move."""<br><br><br>class Solution:<br>    def __init__(self, m, n):<br>        self.grid = [[0]  n for _ in range(m)]<br>        self.zero_count = m  n<br><br>    def pick(self):<br>        index = random.randrange(self.zero_count)<br><br>        for i, row in enumerate(self.grid):<br>            for j, cell in enumerate(row):<br>                if cell == 0:<br>                    if index == 0:<br>                        self.grid[i][j] = 1<br>                        self.zero_count -= 1<br>                        return (i, j)<br>                    index -= 1<br>        return (-1, -1)  # Should not happen

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1686.txt
> def stoneGameVI(aliceValues, bobValues):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones in a pile. On each player's turn, they can remove a stone from the pile and receive points based on the stone's value. Alice and Bob may value the stones differently.<br><br>You are given two integer arrays of length `n`, `aliceValues` and `bobValues`. Each `aliceValues[i]` and `bobValues[i]` represents how Alice and Bob, respectively, value the `ith` stone.<br><br>The winner is the person with the most points after all the stones are chosen. If both players have the same amount of points, the game results in a draw. Both players will play optimally. Both players know the other's values.<br><br>Determine the result of the game, and:<br><br>   If Alice wins, return `1`.<br>   If Bob wins, return `-1`.<br>   If the game results in a draw, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,3\], bobValues = \[2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 1 (0-indexed) first, Alice will receive 3 points.<br>Bob can only choose stone 0, and will only receive 2 points.<br>Alice wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,2\], bobValues = \[3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 0, and Bob takes stone 1, they will both have 1 point.<br>Draw.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[2,4,3\], bobValues = \[1,6,7\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>Regardless of how Alice plays, Bob will be able to have more points than Alice.<br>For example, if Alice takes stone 1, Bob can take stone 2, and Alice takes stone 0, Alice will have 6 points to Bob's 7.<br>Bob wins.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == aliceValues.length == bobValues.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= aliceValues[i], bobValues[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    n = len(aliceValues)<br>    diff = sorted([(aliceValues[i] + bobValues[i], i) for i in range(n)], reverse=True)<br><br>    aliceSum, bobSum = 0, 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if i % 2 == 0:<br>            aliceSum += aliceValues[diff[i][1]]<br>        else:<br>            bobSum += bobValues[diff[i][1]]<br>            <br>    return 0 if aliceSum == bobSum else (1 if aliceSum  bobSum else -1)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2525.txt
> def boxCategory(length: int, width: int, height: int, mass: int) - str:<br>    """Given four integers `length`, `width`, `height`, and `mass`, representing the dimensions and mass of a box, respectively, return _a string representing the category of the box_.<br><br>   The box is `"Bulky "` if:<br>       Any of the dimensions of the box is greater or equal to `104`.<br>       Or, the volume of the box is greater or equal to `109`.<br>   If the mass of the box is greater or equal to `100`, it is `"Heavy ".`<br>   If the box is both `"Bulky "` and `"Heavy "`, then its category is `"Both "`.<br>   If the box is neither `"Bulky "` nor `"Heavy "`, then its category is `"Neither "`.<br>   If the box is `"Bulky "` but not `"Heavy "`, then its category is `"Bulky "`.<br>   If the box is `"Heavy "` but not `"Bulky "`, then its category is `"Heavy "`.<br><br>Note that the volume of the box is the product of its length, width and height.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: length = 1000, width = 35, height = 700, mass = 300<br>Output:  "Heavy "<br>Explanation: <br>None of the dimensions of the box is greater or equal to 104. <br>Its volume = 24500000 <= 109. So it cannot be categorized as  "Bulky ".<br>However mass = 100, so the box is  "Heavy ".<br>Since the box is not  "Bulky " but  "Heavy ", we return  "Heavy ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: length = 200, width = 50, height = 800, mass = 50<br>Output:  "Neither "<br>Explanation: <br>None of the dimensions of the box is greater or equal to 104.<br>Its volume = 8 \ 106 <= 109. So it cannot be categorized as  "Bulky ".<br>Its mass is also less than 100, so it cannot be categorized as  "Heavy " either. <br>Since its neither of the two above categories, we return  "Neither ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= length, width, height <= 105`<br>   `1 <= mass <= 103`"""<br><br>    bulky = length = 10000 or width = 10000 or height = 10000 or int(length)  width  height = 1000000000<br>    heavy = mass = 100<br>    <br>    if bulky and heavy:<br>        return "Both "<br>    if bulky:<br>        return "Bulky "<br>    if heavy:<br>        return "Heavy "<br>    return "Neither "
