# Query `60`

## Original Question

*There are `n` cities numbered from `0` to `n-1`. Given the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi, weighti]` represents a bidirectional and weighted edge between cities `fromi` and `toi`, and given the integer `distanceThreshold`.

Return the city with the smallest number of cities that are reachable through some path and whose distance is at most `distanceThreshold`, If there are multiple such cities, return the city with the greatest number.

Notice that the distance of a path connecting cities _i_ and _j_ is equal to the sum of the edges' weights along that path.

Example 1:

Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[0,1,3\],\[1,2,1\],\[1,3,4\],\[2,3,1\]\], distanceThreshold = 4
Output: 3
Explanation: The figure above describes the graph. 
The neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 4 for each city are:
City 0 -> \[City 1, City 2\] 
City 1 -> \[City 0, City 2, City 3\] 
City 2 -> \[City 0, City 1, City 3\] 
City 3 -> \[City 1, City 2\] 
Cities 0 and 3 have 2 neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 4, but we have to return city 3 since it has the greatest number.

Example 2:

Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[0,1,2\],\[0,4,8\],\[1,2,3\],\[1,4,2\],\[2,3,1\],\[3,4,1\]\], distanceThreshold = 2
Output: 0
Explanation: The figure above describes the graph. 
The neighboring cities at a distanceThreshold = 2 for each city are:
City 0 -> \[City 1\] 
City 1 -> \[City 0, City 4\] 
City 2 -> \[City 3, City 4\] 
City 3 -> \[City 2, City 4\]
City 4 -> \[City 1, City 2, City 3\] 
The city 0 has 1 neighboring city at a distanceThreshold = 2.

Constraints:

   `2 <= n <= 100`
   `1 <= edges.length <= n  (n - 1) / 2`
   `edges[i].length == 3`
   `0 <= fromi < toi < n`
   `1 <= weighti, distanceThreshold <= 10^4`
   All pairs `(fromi, toi)` are distinct.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2277
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2277
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2277
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0500
map_cut_50: 0.0500
map_cut_100: 0.0500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1557.txt
> def has_all_codes(s, k):<br>    """Given a directed acyclic graph, with `n` vertices numbered from `0` to `n-1`, and an array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi]` represents a directed edge from node `fromi` to node `toi`.<br><br>Find _the smallest set of vertices from which all nodes in the graph are reachable_. It's guaranteed that a unique solution exists.<br><br>Notice that you can return the vertices in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,5\],\[3,4\],\[4,2\]\]<br>Output: \[0,3\]<br>Explanation: It's not possible to reach all the nodes from a single vertex. From 0 we can reach \[0,1,2,5\]. From 3 we can reach \[3,4,2,5\]. So we output \[0,3\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[2,1\],\[3,1\],\[1,4\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[0,2,3\]<br>Explanation: Notice that vertices 0, 3 and 2 are not reachable from any other node, so we must include them. Also any of these vertices can reach nodes 1 and 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 10^5`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(10^5, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi < n`<br>   All pairs `(fromi, toi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    need = 1 << k<br>    got = set()<br>    <br>    for i in range(len(s) - k + 1):<br>        got.add(s[i:i + k])<br>    <br>    return len(got) == need

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1489.txt
> def max_size_slices(slices):<br>    """Given a weighted undirected connected graph with `n` vertices numbered from `0` to `n - 1`, and an array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi, weighti]` represents a bidirectional and weighted edge between nodes `ai` and `bi`. A minimum spanning tree (MST) is a subset of the graph's edges that connects all vertices without cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight.<br><br>Find _all the critical and pseudo-critical edges in the given graph's minimum spanning tree (MST)_. An MST edge whose deletion from the graph would cause the MST weight to increase is called a _critical edge_. On the other hand, a pseudo-critical edge is that which can appear in some MSTs but not all.<br><br>Note that you can return the indices of the edges in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[0,1,1\],\[1,2,1\],\[2,3,2\],\[0,3,2\],\[0,4,3\],\[3,4,3\],\[1,4,6\]\]<br>Output: \[\[0,1\],\[2,3,4,5\]\]<br>Explanation: The figure above describes the graph.<br>The following figure shows all the possible MSTs:<br> <br>Notice that the two edges 0 and 1 appear in all MSTs, therefore they are critical edges, so we return them in the first list of the output.<br>The edges 2, 3, 4, and 5 are only part of some MSTs, therefore they are considered pseudo-critical edges. We add them to the second list of the output.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[0,1,1\],\[1,2,1\],\[2,3,1\],\[0,3,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation: We can observe that since all 4 edges have equal weight, choosing any 3 edges from the given 4 will yield an MST. Therefore all 4 edges are pseudo-critical.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 100`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(200, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= ai < bi < n`<br>   `1 <= weighti <= 1000`<br>   All pairs `(ai, bi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    def max_sum(slices, start, end, n, memo):<br>        if n == 0:<br>            return 0<br>        if end - start + 1 < n  2:<br>            return float('-inf')<br>        if memo[start][n] != -1:<br>            return memo[start][n]<br><br>        pick = max_sum(slices, start + 2, end, n - 1, memo) + slices[start]<br>        not_pick = max_sum(slices, start + 1, end, n, memo)<br><br>        memo[start][n] = max(pick, not_pick)<br>        return memo[start][n]<br><br>    n = len(slices) // 3<br>    memo1 = [[-1]  (n + 1) for _ in range(len(slices))]<br>    memo2 = [[-1]  (n + 1) for _ in range(len(slices))]<br><br>    return max(max_sum(slices, 0, len(slices) - 1, n, memo1),<br>               max_sum(slices, 1, len(slices), n, memo2))

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2192.txt
> def min_cost(grid, start_pos, home_pos, row_costs, col_costs):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `n` representing the number of nodes of a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). The nodes are numbered from `0` to `n - 1` (inclusive).<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi]` denotes that there is a unidirectional edge from `fromi` to `toi` in the graph.<br><br>Return _a list_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the list of ancestors of the_ `ith` _node, sorted in ascending order_.<br><br>A node `u` is an ancestor of another node `v` if `u` can reach `v` via a set of edges.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 8, edgeList = \[\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,7\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\],\[3,7\],\[4,6\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[\],\[\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,1,3\],\[0,1,2,3,4\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Nodes 0, 1, and 2 do not have any ancestors.<br>- Node 3 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 4 has two ancestors 0 and 2.<br>- Node 5 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 3.<br>- Node 6 has five ancestors 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4.<br>- Node 7 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edgeList = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[0\],\[0,1\],\[0,1,2\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Node 0 does not have any ancestor.<br>- Node 1 has one ancestor 0.<br>- Node 2 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 3 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 2.<br>- Node 4 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(2000, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi <= n - 1`<br>   `fromi != toi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   The graph is directed and acyclic."""<br><br>    return abs(row_costs[start_pos[0]] - row_costs[home_pos[0]]) + abs(col_costs[start_pos[1]] - col_costs[home_pos[1]])

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1617.txt
> def winnerSquareGame(n: int) - bool:<br>    """There are `n` cities numbered from `1` to `n`. You are given an array `edges` of size `n-1`, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` represents a bidirectional edge between cities `ui` and `vi`. There exists a unique path between each pair of cities. In other words, the cities form a tree.<br><br>A subtree is a subset of cities where every city is reachable from every other city in the subset, where the path between each pair passes through only the cities from the subset. Two subtrees are different if there is a city in one subtree that is not present in the other.<br><br>For each `d` from `1` to `n-1`, find the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities in the subtree is equal to `d`.<br><br>Return _an array of size_ `n-1` _where the_ `dth` _element (1-indexed) is the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities is equal to_ `d`.<br><br>Notice that the distance between the two cities is the number of edges in the path between them.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[3,4,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2}, {2,3} and {2,4} have a max distance of 1.<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2,3}, {1,2,4}, {2,3,4} and {1,2,3,4} have a max distance of 2.<br>No subtree has two nodes where the max distance between them is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 15`<br>   `edges.length == n-1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   All pairs `(ui, vi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    dp = [False]  (n + 1)<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        j = 1<br>        while j  j <= i:<br>            if not dp[i - j  j]:<br>                dp[i] = True<br>                break<br>            j += 1<br>    return dp[n]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2492.txt
> from heapq import heappush, heappop<br>    """You are given a positive integer `n` representing `n` cities numbered from `1` to `n`. You are also given a 2D array `roads` where `roads[i] = [ai, bi, distancei]` indicates that there is a bidirectional road between cities `ai` and `bi` with a distance equal to `distancei`. The cities graph is not necessarily connected.<br><br>The score of a path between two cities is defined as the minimum distance of a road in this path.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible score of a path between cities_ `1` _and_ `n`.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   A path is a sequence of roads between two cities.<br>   It is allowed for a path to contain the same road multiple times, and you can visit cities `1` and `n` multiple times along the path.<br>   The test cases are generated such that there is at least one path between `1` and `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, roads = \[\[1,2,9\],\[2,3,6\],\[2,4,5\],\[1,4,7\]\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The path from city 1 to 4 with the minimum score is: 1 - 2 - 4. The score of this path is min(9,5) = 5.<br>It can be shown that no other path has less score.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, roads = \[\[1,2,2\],\[1,3,4\],\[3,4,7\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The path from city 1 to 4 with the minimum score is: 1 - 2 - 1 - 3 - 4. The score of this path is min(2,2,4,7) = 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= roads.length <= 105`<br>   `roads[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `1 <= distancei <= 104`<br>   There are no repeated edges.<br>   There is at least one path between `1` and `n`."""<br><br>from collections import defaultdict<br><br>def minimumScore(n, roads):<br>    adj = defaultdict(list)<br>    for road in roads:<br>        adj[road[0]].append((road[1], road[2]))<br>        adj[road[1]].append((road[0], road[2]))<br><br>    INF = int(1e9)<br>    pq = [(0, 1)]<br><br>    minDist = [INF]  (n + 1)<br>    while pq:<br>        curDist, curCity = heappop(pq)<br><br>        if curCity == n:<br>            return curDist<br><br>        if curDist < minDist[curCity]:<br>            minDist[curCity] = curDist<br>            for nextCity, nextDist in adj[curCity]:<br>                candidate_dist = max(curDist, nextDist)<br>                if candidate_dist < minDist[nextCity]:<br>                    heappush(pq, (candidate_dist, nextCity))<br><br>    return -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 19, leetcode/leetcode_2045.txt
> from collections import defaultdict, deque<br>    """A city is represented as a bi-directional connected graph with `n` vertices where each vertex is labeled from `1` to `n` (inclusive). The edges in the graph are represented as a 2D integer array `edges`, where each `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` denotes a bi-directional edge between vertex `ui` and vertex `vi`. Every vertex pair is connected by at most one edge, and no vertex has an edge to itself. The time taken to traverse any edge is `time` minutes.<br><br>Each vertex has a traffic signal which changes its color from green to red and vice versa every `change` minutes. All signals change at the same time. You can enter a vertex at any time, but can leave a vertex only when the signal is green. You cannot wait at a vertex if the signal is green.<br><br>The second minimum value is defined as the smallest value strictly larger than the minimum value.<br><br>   For example the second minimum value of `[2, 3, 4]` is `3`, and the second minimum value of `[2, 2, 4]` is `4`.<br><br>Given `n`, `edges`, `time`, and `change`, return _the second minimum time it will take to go from vertex_ `1` _to vertex_ `n`.<br><br>Notes:<br><br>   You can go through any vertex any number of times, including `1` and `n`.<br>   You can assume that when the journey starts, all signals have just turned green.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>       <br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\], time = 3, change = 5<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>The figure on the left shows the given graph.<br>The blue path in the figure on the right is the minimum time path.<br>The time taken is:<br>- Start at 1, time elapsed=0<br>- 1 - 4: 3 minutes, time elapsed=3<br>- 4 - 5: 3 minutes, time elapsed=6<br>Hence the minimum time needed is 6 minutes.<br><br>The red path shows the path to get the second minimum time.<br>- Start at 1, time elapsed=0<br>- 1 - 3: 3 minutes, time elapsed=3<br>- 3 - 4: 3 minutes, time elapsed=6<br>- Wait at 4 for 4 minutes, time elapsed=10<br>- 4 - 5: 3 minutes, time elapsed=13<br>Hence the second minimum time is 13 minutes.      <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,2\]\], time = 3, change = 2<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation:<br>The minimum time path is 1 - 2 with time = 3 minutes.<br>The second minimum time path is 1 - 2 - 1 - 2 with time = 11 minutes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 104`<br>   `n - 1 <= edges.length <= min(2  104, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   Each vertex can be reached directly or indirectly from every other vertex.<br>   `1 <= time, change <= 103`"""<br><br><br>def secondMinimum(n, edges, time, change):<br>    graph = defaultdict(list)<br>    <br>    for u, v in edges:<br>        graph[u].append(v)<br>        graph[v].append(u)<br><br>    dist = [float('inf')]  (n + 1)<br>    dist2 = [float('inf')]  (n + 1)<br>    dist[1] = 0<br><br>    q = deque([1])<br><br>    while q:<br>        cur = q.popleft()<br><br>        nextDist = dist[cur] + time<br>        waitTime = change if (nextDist // change) % 2 == 1 else 0<br>        nextDist += waitTime<br><br>        for next in graph[cur]:<br>            if nextDist < dist[next]:<br>                nextDist, dist[next] = dist[next], nextDist<br>                q.append(next)<br>            if nextDist < dist2[next]:<br>                nextDist, dist2[next] = dist2[next], nextDist<br>                q.append(next)<br><br>    return dist2[n]
