# Query `61`

## Original Question

*You are given an `m x n` `grid`. Each cell of `grid` represents a street. The street of `grid[i][j]` can be:

   `1` which means a street connecting the left cell and the right cell.
   `2` which means a street connecting the upper cell and the lower cell.
   `3` which means a street connecting the left cell and the lower cell.
   `4` which means a street connecting the right cell and the lower cell.
   `5` which means a street connecting the left cell and the upper cell.
   `6` which means a street connecting the right cell and the upper cell.

You will initially start at the street of the upper-left cell `(0, 0)`. A valid path in the grid is a path that starts from the upper left cell `(0, 0)` and ends at the bottom-right cell `(m - 1, n - 1)`. The path should only follow the streets.

Notice that you are not allowed to change any street.

Return `true` _if there is a valid path in the grid or_ `false` _otherwise_.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[2,4,3\],\[6,5,2\]\]
Output: true
Explanation: As shown you can start at cell (0, 0) and visit all the cells of the grid to reach (m - 1, n - 1).

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[1,2,1\],\[1,2,1\]\]
Output: false
Explanation: As shown you the street at cell (0, 0) is not connected with any street of any other cell and you will get stuck at cell (0, 0)

Example 3:

Input: grid = \[\[1,1,2\]\]
Output: false
Explanation: You will get stuck at cell (0, 1) and you cannot reach cell (0, 2).

Constraints:

   `m == grid.length`
   `n == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 300`
   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 6`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6309
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1706.txt
> def minCostConnectPoints(points):<br>    """You have a 2-D `grid` of size `m x n` representing a box, and you have `n` balls. The box is open on the top and bottom sides.<br><br>Each cell in the box has a diagonal board spanning two corners of the cell that can redirect a ball to the right or to the left.<br><br>   A board that redirects the ball to the right spans the top-left corner to the bottom-right corner and is represented in the grid as `1`.<br>   A board that redirects the ball to the left spans the top-right corner to the bottom-left corner and is represented in the grid as `-1`.<br><br>We drop one ball at the top of each column of the box. Each ball can get stuck in the box or fall out of the bottom. A ball gets stuck if it hits a "V " shaped pattern between two boards or if a board redirects the ball into either wall of the box.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of size_ `n` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the column that the ball falls out of at the bottom after dropping the ball from the_ `ith` _column at the top, or `-1` _if the ball gets stuck in the box_._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1,-1,-1\],\[1,1,1,-1,-1\],\[-1,-1,-1,1,1\],\[1,1,1,1,-1\],\[-1,-1,-1,-1,-1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,-1,-1,-1,-1\]<br>Explanation: This example is shown in the photo.<br>Ball b0 is dropped at column 0 and falls out of the box at column 1.<br>Ball b1 is dropped at column 1 and will get stuck in the box between column 2 and 3 and row 1.<br>Ball b2 is dropped at column 2 and will get stuck on the box between column 2 and 3 and row 0.<br>Ball b3 is dropped at column 3 and will get stuck on the box between column 2 and 3 and row 0.<br>Ball b4 is dropped at column 4 and will get stuck on the box between column 2 and 3 and row 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[-1\]\]<br>Output: \[-1\]<br>Explanation: The ball gets stuck against the left wall.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1,1,1,1\],\[-1,-1,-1,-1,-1,-1\],\[1,1,1,1,1,1\],\[-1,-1,-1,-1,-1,-1\]\]<br>Output: \[0,1,2,3,4,-1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 100`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is `1` or `-1`."""<br><br>    n = len(points)<br>    cost = [float('inf')]  n<br>    visited = [False]  n<br>    cost[0] = 0<br><br>    ans = 0<br><br>    for _ in range(n):<br>        min_cost = float('inf')<br>        cur_point = -1<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if not visited[j] and cost[j] < min_cost:<br>                min_cost = cost[j]<br>                cur_point = j<br><br>        visited[cur_point] = True<br>        ans += min_cost<br><br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if not visited[j]:<br>                new_cost = abs(points[cur_point][0] - points[j][0]) + abs(points[cur_point][1] - points[j][1])<br>                cost[j] = min(cost[j], new_cost)<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2267.txt
> def minDifference(nums):<br>    """A parentheses string is a non-empty string consisting only of `'('` and `')'`. It is valid if any of the following conditions is true:<br><br>   It is `()`.<br>   It can be written as `AB` (`A` concatenated with `B`), where `A` and `B` are valid parentheses strings.<br>   It can be written as `(A)`, where `A` is a valid parentheses string.<br><br>You are given an `m x n` matrix of parentheses `grid`. A valid parentheses string path in the grid is a path satisfying all of the following conditions:<br><br>   The path starts from the upper left cell `(0, 0)`.<br>   The path ends at the bottom-right cell `(m - 1, n - 1)`.<br>   The path only ever moves down or right.<br>   The resulting parentheses string formed by the path is valid.<br><br>Return `true` _if there exists a valid parentheses string path in the grid._ Otherwise, return `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[ "( ", "( ", "( "\],\[ ") ", "( ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( ", ") "\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows two possible paths that form valid parentheses strings.<br>The first path shown results in the valid parentheses string  "()(()) ".<br>The second path shown results in the valid parentheses string  "((())) ".<br>Note that there may be other valid parentheses string paths.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[ ") ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( "\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The two possible paths form the parentheses strings  "))( " and  ")(( ". Since neither of them are valid parentheses strings, we return false.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 100`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `'('` or `')'`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums) // 3<br>    prefix, suffix = [0]  (n + 2), [0]  (n + 2)<br>    <br>    window = sorted(nums[:n])<br>    prefix[0] = sum(window)<br>    <br>    for i in range(n, 2  n):<br>        window.remove(nums[i - n])<br>        bisect.insort(window, nums[i])<br>        prefix[i - n + 1] = sum(window)<br><br>    window = sorted(nums[-n:])<br>    suffix[n] = sum(window)<br>    <br>    for i in range(2  n - 1, n - 1, -1):<br>        j = 3  n - i - 1<br>        window.remove(nums[j])<br>        idx = bisect_left(window, nums[n  2 - j - 1])<br>        window.insert(idx, nums[n  2 - j - 1])<br>        suffix[i] = sum(window)<br><br>    return min(abs(a - b) for a, b in zip(prefix, suffix))

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2245.txt
> def can_destroy_all_asteroids(mass, asteroids):<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `grid` of size `m x n`, where each cell contains a positive integer.<br><br>A cornered path is defined as a set of adjacent cells with at most one turn. More specifically, the path should exclusively move either horizontally or vertically up to the turn (if there is one), without returning to a previously visited cell. After the turn, the path will then move exclusively in the alternate direction: move vertically if it moved horizontally, and vice versa, also without returning to a previously visited cell.<br><br>The product of a path is defined as the product of all the values in the path.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path found in_ `grid`.<br><br>Note:<br><br>   Horizontal movement means moving in either the left or right direction.<br>   Vertical movement means moving in either the up or down direction.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[23,17,15,3,20\],\[8,1,20,27,11\],\[9,4,6,2,21\],\[40,9,1,10,6\],\[22,7,4,5,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The grid on the left shows a valid cornered path.<br>It has a product of 15 \ 20 \ 6 \ 1 \ 10 = 18000 which has 3 trailing zeros.<br>It can be shown that this is the maximum trailing zeros in the product of a cornered path.<br><br>The grid in the middle is not a cornered path as it has more than one turn.<br>The grid on the right is not a cornered path as it requires a return to a previously visited cell.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[4,3,2\],\[7,6,1\],\[8,8,8\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The grid is shown in the figure above.<br>There are no cornered paths in the grid that result in a product with a trailing zero.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= grid[i][j] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    asteroids.sort()<br>    for asteroid in asteroids:<br>        if mass = asteroid:<br>            mass += asteroid<br>        else:<br>            return False<br>    return True

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1594.txt
> def maxProductPath(self, grid: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    """You are given a `m x n` matrix `grid`. Initially, you are located at the top-left corner `(0, 0)`, and in each step, you can only move right or down in the matrix.<br><br>Among all possible paths starting from the top-left corner `(0, 0)` and ending in the bottom-right corner `(m - 1, n - 1)`, find the path with the maximum non-negative product. The product of a path is the product of all integers in the grid cells visited along the path.<br><br>Return the _maximum non-negative product modulo_ `109 + 7`. _If the maximum product is negative, return_ `-1`.<br><br>Notice that the modulo is performed after getting the maximum product.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[-1,-2,-3\],\[-2,-3,-3\],\[-3,-3,-2\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: It is not possible to get non-negative product in the path from (0, 0) to (2, 2), so return -1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,-2,1\],\[1,-2,1\],\[3,-4,1\]\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: Maximum non-negative product is shown (1 \ 1 \ -2 \ -4 \ 1 = 8).<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,3\],\[0,-4\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Maximum non-negative product is shown (1 \ 0 \ -4 = 0).<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 15`<br>   `-4 <= grid[i][j] <= 4`"""<br><br>    m, n, mod = len(grid), len(grid[0]), 109 + 7<br>    dp = [[[0, 0] for _ in range(n)] for _ in range(m)]<br>    dp[0][0] = [grid[0][0], grid[0][0]]<br>    for i in range(1, m):<br>        dp[i][0] = [grid[i][0]  dp[i - 1][0][0], grid[i][0]  dp[i - 1][0][0]]<br>    for j in range(1, n):<br>        dp[0][j] = [grid[0][j]  dp[0][j - 1][0], grid[0][j]  dp[0][j - 1][0]]<br>    for i in range(1, m):<br>        for j in range(1, n):<br>            if grid[i][j] < 0:<br>                dp[i][j][0] = min(grid[i][j]  dp[i - 1][j][1], grid[i][j]  dp[i][j - 1][1])<br>                dp[i][j][1] = max(grid[i][j]  dp[i - 1][j][0], grid[i][j]  dp[i][j - 1][0])<br>            else:<br>                dp[i][j][0] = min(grid[i][j]  dp[i - 1][j][0], grid[i][j]  dp[i][j - 1][0])<br>                dp[i][j][1] = max(grid[i][j]  dp[i - 1][j][1], grid[i][j]  dp[i][j - 1][1])<br>    return -1 if dp[-1][-1][1] < 0 else dp[-1][-1][1] % mod

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1219.txt
> def longest_wpi(hours):<br>    """In a gold mine `grid` of size `m x n`, each cell in this mine has an integer representing the amount of gold in that cell, `0` if it is empty.<br><br>Return the maximum amount of gold you can collect under the conditions:<br><br>   Every time you are located in a cell you will collect all the gold in that cell.<br>   From your position, you can walk one step to the left, right, up, or down.<br>   You can't visit the same cell more than once.<br>   Never visit a cell with `0` gold.<br>   You can start and stop collecting gold from any position in the grid that has some gold.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,6,0\],\[5,8,7\],\[0,9,0\]\]<br>Output: 24<br>Explanation:<br>\[\[0,6,0\],<br> \[5,8,7\],<br> \[0,9,0\]\]<br>Path to get the maximum gold, 9 - 8 - 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,7\],\[2,0,6\],\[3,4,5\],\[0,3,0\],\[9,0,20\]\]<br>Output: 28<br>Explanation:<br>\[\[1,0,7\],<br> \[2,0,6\],<br> \[3,4,5\],<br> \[0,3,0\],<br> \[9,0,20\]\]<br>Path to get the maximum gold, 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6 - 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 15`<br>   `0 <= grid[i][j] <= 100`<br>   There are at most 25 cells containing gold."""<br><br>    score = 0<br>    max_length = 0<br>    first_occurrence = {}<br><br>    for i, h in enumerate(hours):<br>        score += 1 if h  8 else -1<br>        if score  0:<br>            max_length = i + 1<br>        else:<br>            if score not in first_occurrence:<br>                first_occurrence[score] = i<br>            if score - 1 in first_occurrence:<br>                max_length = max(max_length, i - first_occurrence[score - 1])<br>    return max_length


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_2267.txt
> def minDifference(nums):<br>    """A parentheses string is a non-empty string consisting only of `'('` and `')'`. It is valid if any of the following conditions is true:<br><br>   It is `()`.<br>   It can be written as `AB` (`A` concatenated with `B`), where `A` and `B` are valid parentheses strings.<br>   It can be written as `(A)`, where `A` is a valid parentheses string.<br><br>You are given an `m x n` matrix of parentheses `grid`. A valid parentheses string path in the grid is a path satisfying all of the following conditions:<br><br>   The path starts from the upper left cell `(0, 0)`.<br>   The path ends at the bottom-right cell `(m - 1, n - 1)`.<br>   The path only ever moves down or right.<br>   The resulting parentheses string formed by the path is valid.<br><br>Return `true` _if there exists a valid parentheses string path in the grid._ Otherwise, return `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[ "( ", "( ", "( "\],\[ ") ", "( ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( ", ") "\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The above diagram shows two possible paths that form valid parentheses strings.<br>The first path shown results in the valid parentheses string  "()(()) ".<br>The second path shown results in the valid parentheses string  "((())) ".<br>Note that there may be other valid parentheses string paths.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[ ") ", ") "\],\[ "( ", "( "\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The two possible paths form the parentheses strings  "))( " and  ")(( ". Since neither of them are valid parentheses strings, we return false.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 100`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `'('` or `')'`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums) // 3<br>    prefix, suffix = [0]  (n + 2), [0]  (n + 2)<br>    <br>    window = sorted(nums[:n])<br>    prefix[0] = sum(window)<br>    <br>    for i in range(n, 2  n):<br>        window.remove(nums[i - n])<br>        bisect.insort(window, nums[i])<br>        prefix[i - n + 1] = sum(window)<br><br>    window = sorted(nums[-n:])<br>    suffix[n] = sum(window)<br>    <br>    for i in range(2  n - 1, n - 1, -1):<br>        j = 3  n - i - 1<br>        window.remove(nums[j])<br>        idx = bisect_left(window, nums[n  2 - j - 1])<br>        window.insert(idx, nums[n  2 - j - 1])<br>        suffix[i] = sum(window)<br><br>    return min(abs(a - b) for a, b in zip(prefix, suffix))
