# Query `63`

## Original Question

*You are given the string `croakOfFrogs`, which represents a combination of the string `"croak "` from different frogs, that is, multiple frogs can croak at the same time, so multiple `"croak "` are mixed.

_Return the minimum number of_ different _frogs to finish all the croaks in the given string._

A valid `"croak "` means a frog is printing five letters `'c'`, `'r'`, `'o'`, `'a'`, and `'k'` sequentially. The frogs have to print all five letters to finish a croak. If the given string is not a combination of a valid `"croak "` return `-1`.

Example 1:

Input: croakOfFrogs =  "croakcroak "
Output: 1 
Explanation: One frog yelling  "croak " twice.

Example 2:

Input: croakOfFrogs =  "crcoakroak "
Output: 2 
Explanation: The minimum number of frogs is two. 
The first frog could yell  "crcoakroak ".
The second frog could yell later  "crcoakroak ".

Example 3:

Input: croakOfFrogs =  "croakcrook "
Output: -1
Explanation: The given string is an invalid combination of  "croak " from different frogs.

Constraints:

   `1 <= croakOfFrogs.length <= 105`
   `croakOfFrogs` is either `'c'`, `'r'`, `'o'`, `'a'`, or `'k'`.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0154
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1654
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0154
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1534.txt
> def minNumberOfFrogs(croakOfFrogs: str) - int:<br>    """Given an array of integers `arr`, and three integers `a`, `b` and `c`. You need to find the number of good triplets.<br><br>A triplet `(arr[i], arr[j], arr[k])` is good if the following conditions are true:<br><br>   `0 <= i < j < k < arr.length`<br>   `|arr[i] - arr[j]| <= a`<br>   `|arr[j] - arr[k]| <= b`<br>   `|arr[i] - arr[k]| <= c`<br><br>Where `|x|` denotes the absolute value of `x`.<br><br>Return _the number of good triplets_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[3,0,1,1,9,7\], a = 7, b = 2, c = 3<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: There are 4 good triplets: \[(3,0,1), (3,0,1), (3,1,1), (0,1,1)\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1,1,2,2,3\], a = 0, b = 0, c = 1<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: No triplet satisfies all conditions.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= arr.length <= 100`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= a, b, c <= 1000`"""<br><br>    counts = [0]  5<br>    max_frogs = 0<br><br>    for c in croakOfFrogs:<br>        index = "croak".find(c)<br>        if index == 0:<br>            counts[0] += 1<br>            max_frogs = max(max_frogs, counts[0])<br>        elif counts[index - 1]  0:<br>            counts[index - 1] -= 1<br>            counts[index] += 1<br>        else:<br>            return -1<br><br>    if counts[0] == counts[4]:<br>        return max_frogs<br>    else:<br>        return -1

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2498.txt
> def minimum_path_cost(stones):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `stones` sorted in strictly increasing order representing the positions of stones in a river.<br><br>A frog, initially on the first stone, wants to travel to the last stone and then return to the first stone. However, it can jump to any stone at most once.<br><br>The length of a jump is the absolute difference between the position of the stone the frog is currently on and the position of the stone to which the frog jumps.<br><br>   More formally, if the frog is at `stones[i]` and is jumping to `stones[j]`, the length of the jump is `|stones[i] - stones[j]|`.<br><br>The cost of a path is the maximum length of a jump among all jumps in the path.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost of a path for the frog_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,2,5,6,7\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: The above figure represents one of the optimal paths the frog can take.<br>The cost of this path is 5, which is the maximum length of a jump.<br>Since it is not possible to achieve a cost of less than 5, we return it.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,3,9\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The frog can jump directly to the last stone and come back to the first stone. <br>In this case, the length of each jump will be 9. The cost for the path will be max(9, 9) = 9.<br>It can be shown that this is the minimum achievable cost.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= stones[i] <= 109`<br>   `stones[0] == 0`<br>   `stones` is sorted in a strictly increasing order."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    max_cost = stones[n-1]<br>    for i in range(1, n-1):<br>        max_cost = min(max_cost, max(stones[i], stones[n-1]-stones[i]))<br>    return max_cost

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1377.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """Given an undirected tree consisting of `n` vertices numbered from `1` to `n`. A frog starts jumping from vertex 1. In one second, the frog jumps from its current vertex to another unvisited vertex if they are directly connected. The frog can not jump back to a visited vertex. In case the frog can jump to several vertices, it jumps randomly to one of them with the same probability. Otherwise, when the frog can not jump to any unvisited vertex, it jumps forever on the same vertex.<br><br>The edges of the undirected tree are given in the array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` means that exists an edge connecting the vertices `ai` and `bi`.<br><br>_Return the probability that after `t` seconds the frog is on the vertex `target`._ Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,7\],\[2,4\],\[2,6\],\[3,5\]\], t = 2, target = 4<br>Output: 0.16666666666666666 <br>Explanation: The figure above shows the given graph. The frog starts at vertex 1, jumping with 1/3 probability to the vertex 2 after second 1 and then jumping with 1/2 probability to vertex 4 after second 2. Thus the probability for the frog is on the vertex 4 after 2 seconds is 1/3 \ 1/2 = 1/6 = 0.16666666666666666. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,7\],\[2,4\],\[2,6\],\[3,5\]\], t = 1, target = 7<br>Output: 0.3333333333333333<br>Explanation: The figure above shows the given graph. The frog starts at vertex 1, jumping with 1/3 = 0.3333333333333333 probability to the vertex 7 after second 1. <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 100`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ai, bi <= n`<br>   `1 <= t <= 50`<br>   `1 <= target <= n`"""<br><br><br>def dfs(node, parent, t, target, graph, prob, ans):<br>    if t == 0:<br>        if node == target:<br>            ans[0] += prob<br>        return<br><br>    has_child = False<br>    for neighbor in graph[node]:<br>        if neighbor != parent:<br>            has_child = True<br>            dfs(neighbor, node, t - 1, target, graph, prob / (len(graph[node]) - (1 if node != 1 else 0)), ans)<br><br>    if not has_child and node == target:<br>        ans[0] += prob<br><br>def frogPosition(n, edges, t, target):<br>    graph = defaultdict(list)<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        graph[a].append(b)<br>        graph[b].append(a)<br><br>    ans = [0.0]<br>    dfs(1, -1, t, target, graph, 1.0, ans)<br>    return ans[0]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1824.txt
> import heapq<br>    """There is a 3 lane road of length `n` that consists of `n + 1` points labeled from `0` to `n`. A frog starts at point `0` in the second lane and wants to jump to point `n`. However, there could be obstacles along the way.<br><br>You are given an array `obstacles` of length `n + 1` where each `obstacles[i]` (ranging from 0 to 3) describes an obstacle on the lane `obstacles[i]` at point `i`. If `obstacles[i] == 0`, there are no obstacles at point `i`. There will be at most one obstacle in the 3 lanes at each point.<br><br>   For example, if `obstacles[2] == 1`, then there is an obstacle on lane 1 at point 2.<br><br>The frog can only travel from point `i` to point `i + 1` on the same lane if there is not an obstacle on the lane at point `i + 1`. To avoid obstacles, the frog can also perform a side jump to jump to another lane (even if they are not adjacent) at the same point if there is no obstacle on the new lane.<br><br>   For example, the frog can jump from lane 3 at point 3 to lane 1 at point 3.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of side jumps the frog needs to reach any lane at point n starting from lane `2` at point 0._<br><br>Note: There will be no obstacles on points `0` and `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,1,2,3,0\]<br>Output: 2 <br>Explanation: The optimal solution is shown by the arrows above. There are 2 side jumps (red arrows).<br>Note that the frog can jump over obstacles only when making side jumps (as shown at point 2).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,1,1,3,3,0\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no obstacles on lane 2. No side jumps are required.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,2,1,0,3,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The optimal solution is shown by the arrows above. There are 2 side jumps.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `obstacles.length == n + 1`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5  105`<br>   `0 <= obstacles[i] <= 3`<br>   `obstacles[0] == obstacles[n] == 0`"""<br><br><br>def eatenApples(apples, days):<br>    n = len(apples)<br>    pq = []<br>    ans = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n + 1):<br>        if i < n and apples[i]  0:<br>            heapq.heappush(pq, (i + days[i], apples[i]))<br><br>        while pq and pq[0][0] <= i:<br>            heapq.heappop(pq)<br><br>        if pq:<br>            ans += 1<br>            curr_apple = heapq.heappop(pq)<br>            if curr_apple[1]  1:<br>                heapq.heappush(pq, (curr_apple[0], curr_apple[1] - 1))<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_403.txt
> def can_cross(stones):<br>    """A frog is crossing a river. The river is divided into some number of units, and at each unit, there may or may not exist a stone. The frog can jump on a stone, but it must not jump into the water.<br><br>Given a list of `stones`' positions (in units) in sorted ascending order, determine if the frog can cross the river by landing on the last stone. Initially, the frog is on the first stone and assumes the first jump must be `1` unit.<br><br>If the frog's last jump was `k` units, its next jump must be either `k - 1`, `k`, or `k + 1` units. The frog can only jump in the forward direction.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,1,3,5,6,8,12,17\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The frog can jump to the last stone by jumping 1 unit to the 2nd stone, then 2 units to the 3rd stone, then 2 units to the 4th stone, then 3 units to the 6th stone, 4 units to the 7th stone, and 5 units to the 8th stone.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[0,1,2,3,4,8,9,11\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: There is no way to jump to the last stone as the gap between the 5th and 6th stone is too large.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= stones.length <= 2000`<br>   `0 <= stones[i] <= 231 - 1`<br>   `stones[0] == 0`<br>   `stones` is sorted in a strictly increasing order."""<br><br>    dp = {stone: set() for stone in stones}<br>    dp[0].add(0)<br><br>    for stone in stones:<br>        for k in dp[stone]:<br>            for jump in (k - 1, k, k + 1):<br>                if jump  0 and stone + jump in dp:<br>                    dp[stone + jump].add(jump)<br><br>    return bool(dp[stones[-1]])


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 64, leetcode/leetcode_2406.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given a 2D integer array `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [lefti, righti]` represents the inclusive interval `[lefti, righti]`.<br><br>You have to divide the intervals into one or more groups such that each interval is in exactly one group, and no two intervals that are in the same group intersect each other.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of groups you need to make_.<br><br>Two intervals intersect if there is at least one common number between them. For example, the intervals `[1, 5]` and `[5, 8]` intersect.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[5,10\],\[6,8\],\[1,5\],\[2,3\],\[1,10\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can divide the intervals into the following groups:<br>- Group 1: \[1, 5\], \[6, 8\].<br>- Group 2: \[2, 3\], \[5, 10\].<br>- Group 3: \[1, 10\].<br>It can be proven that it is not possible to divide the intervals into fewer than 3 groups.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: intervals = \[\[1,3\],\[5,6\],\[8,10\],\[11,13\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: None of the intervals overlap, so we can put all of them in one group.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= intervals.length <= 105`<br>   `intervals[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= lefti <= righti <= 106`"""<br><br><br>def min_groups(intervals):<br>    intervals.sort()<br>    pq = []<br>    for interval in intervals:<br>        if pq and pq[0] < interval[0]:<br>            heapq.heappop(pq)<br>        heapq.heappush(pq, interval[1])<br>    return len(pq)
