# Query `64`

## Original Question

*Given a rectangular pizza represented as a `rows x cols` matrix containing the following characters: `'A'` (an apple) and `'.'` (empty cell) and given the integer `k`. You have to cut the pizza into `k` pieces using `k-1` cuts.

For each cut you choose the direction: vertical or horizontal, then you choose a cut position at the cell boundary and cut the pizza into two pieces. If you cut the pizza vertically, give the left part of the pizza to a person. If you cut the pizza horizontally, give the upper part of the pizza to a person. Give the last piece of pizza to the last person.

_Return the number of ways of cutting the pizza such that each piece contains at least one apple._ Since the answer can be a huge number, return this modulo 10^9 + 7.

Example 1:

Input: pizza = \[ "A.. ", "AAA ", "... "\], k = 3
Output: 3 
Explanation: The figure above shows the three ways to cut the pizza. Note that pieces must contain at least one apple.

Example 2:

Input: pizza = \[ "A.. ", "AA. ", "... "\], k = 3
Output: 1

Example 3:

Input: pizza = \[ "A.. ", "A.. ", "... "\], k = 1
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `1 <= rows, cols <= 50`
   `rows == pizza.length`
   `cols == pizza[i].length`
   `1 <= k <= 10`
   `pizza` consists of characters `'A'` and `'.'` only.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_10: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_25: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_50: 0.6309
ndcg_cut_100: 0.6309
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.5000
map_cut_25: 0.5000
map_cut_50: 0.5000
map_cut_100: 0.5000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1465.txt
> class TreeNode:<br>    """You are given a rectangular cake of size `h x w` and two arrays of integers `horizontalCuts` and `verticalCuts` where:<br><br>   `horizontalCuts[i]` is the distance from the top of the rectangular cake to the `ith` horizontal cut and similarly, and<br>   `verticalCuts[j]` is the distance from the left of the rectangular cake to the `jth` vertical cut.<br><br>Return _the maximum area of a piece of cake after you cut at each horizontal and vertical position provided in the arrays_ `horizontalCuts` _and_ `verticalCuts`. Since the answer can be a large number, return this modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: h = 5, w = 4, horizontalCuts = \[1,2,4\], verticalCuts = \[1,3\]<br>Output: 4 <br>Explanation: The figure above represents the given rectangular cake. Red lines are the horizontal and vertical cuts. After you cut the cake, the green piece of cake has the maximum area.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: h = 5, w = 4, horizontalCuts = \[3,1\], verticalCuts = \[1\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The figure above represents the given rectangular cake. Red lines are the horizontal and vertical cuts. After you cut the cake, the green and yellow pieces of cake have the maximum area.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: h = 5, w = 4, horizontalCuts = \[3\], verticalCuts = \[3\]<br>Output: 9<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= h, w <= 109`<br>   `1 <= horizontalCuts.length <= min(h - 1, 105)`<br>   `1 <= verticalCuts.length <= min(w - 1, 105)`<br>   `1 <= horizontalCuts[i] < h`<br>   `1 <= verticalCuts[i] < w`<br>   All the elements in `horizontalCuts` are distinct.<br>   All the elements in `verticalCuts` are distinct."""<br><br>    def __init__(self, x):<br>        self.val = x<br>        self.left = None<br>        self.right = None<br><br>class Solution:<br>    def maxProduct(self, root: TreeNode) - int:<br>        def dfs(node):<br>            if not node:<br>                return 0<br>            return node.val + dfs(node.left) + dfs(node.right)<br><br>        def dfs2(node, half):<br>            nonlocal result<br><br>            if not node:<br>                return 0<br>            cur_sum = node.val + dfs2(node.left, half) + dfs2(node.right, half)<br>            result = max(result, (total - cur_sum)  cur_sum)<br>            return cur_sum<br><br>        total = dfs(root)<br>        result = 0<br>        dfs2(root, total / 2)<br>        return result % (109 + 7)

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2312.txt
> def max_count_target(nums, key):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` that represent the height and width of a rectangular piece of wood. You are also given a 2D integer array `prices`, where `prices[i] = [hi, wi, pricei]` indicates you can sell a rectangular piece of wood of height `hi` and width `wi` for `pricei` dollars.<br><br>To cut a piece of wood, you must make a vertical or horizontal cut across the entire height or width of the piece to split it into two smaller pieces. After cutting a piece of wood into some number of smaller pieces, you can sell pieces according to `prices`. You may sell multiple pieces of the same shape, and you do not have to sell all the shapes. The grain of the wood makes a difference, so you cannot rotate a piece to swap its height and width.<br><br>Return _the maximum money you can earn after cutting an_ `m x n` _piece of wood_.<br><br>Note that you can cut the piece of wood as many times as you want.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 5, prices = \[\[1,4,2\],\[2,2,7\],\[2,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 19<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 2 pieces of wood shaped 2 x 2, selling for a price of 2 \ 7 = 14.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 2 x 1, selling for a price of 1 \ 3 = 3.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 14 + 3 + 2 = 19 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 19 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, prices = \[\[3,2,10\],\[1,4,2\],\[4,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 32<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 3 pieces of wood shaped 3 x 2, selling for a price of 3 \ 10 = 30.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 30 + 2 = 32 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 32 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br>Notice that we cannot rotate the 1 x 4 piece of wood to obtain a 4 x 1 piece of wood.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 2  104`<br>   `prices[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= hi <= m`<br>   `1 <= wi <= n`<br>   `1 <= pricei <= 106`<br>   All the shapes of wood `(hi, wi)` are pairwise distinct."""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    max_count = 0<br>    max_target = -1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i - 1] == key:<br>            count[nums[i]] = count.get(nums[i], 0) + 1<br>            if count[nums[i]]  max_count:<br>                max_count = count[nums[i]]<br>                max_target = nums[i]<br>    return max_target

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2056.txt
> def count_valid_combos(pieces, positions, index=0):<br>    """There is an `8 x 8` chessboard containing `n` pieces (rooks, queens, or bishops). You are given a string array `pieces` of length `n`, where `pieces[i]` describes the type (rook, queen, or bishop) of the `ith` piece. In addition, you are given a 2D integer array `positions` also of length `n`, where `positions[i] = [ri, ci]` indicates that the `ith` piece is currently at the 1-based coordinate `(ri, ci)` on the chessboard.<br><br>When making a move for a piece, you choose a destination square that the piece will travel toward and stop on.<br><br>   A rook can only travel horizontally or vertically from `(r, c)` to the direction of `(r+1, c)`, `(r-1, c)`, `(r, c+1)`, or `(r, c-1)`.<br>   A queen can only travel horizontally, vertically, or diagonally from `(r, c)` to the direction of `(r+1, c)`, `(r-1, c)`, `(r, c+1)`, `(r, c-1)`, `(r+1, c+1)`, `(r+1, c-1)`, `(r-1, c+1)`, `(r-1, c-1)`.<br>   A bishop can only travel diagonally from `(r, c)` to the direction of `(r+1, c+1)`, `(r+1, c-1)`, `(r-1, c+1)`, `(r-1, c-1)`.<br><br>You must make a move for every piece on the board simultaneously. A move combination consists of all the moves performed on all the given pieces. Every second, each piece will instantaneously travel one square towards their destination if they are not already at it. All pieces start traveling at the `0th` second. A move combination is invalid if, at a given time, two or more pieces occupy the same square.<br><br>Return _the number of valid move combinations_​​​​​.<br><br>Notes:<br><br>   No two pieces will start in the same square.<br>   You may choose the square a piece is already on as its destination.<br>   If two pieces are directly adjacent to each other, it is valid for them to move past each other and swap positions in one second.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: pieces = \[ "rook "\], positions = \[\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: 15<br>Explanation: The image above shows the possible squares the piece can move to.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: pieces = \[ "queen "\], positions = \[\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: 22<br>Explanation: The image above shows the possible squares the piece can move to.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: pieces = \[ "bishop "\], positions = \[\[4,3\]\]<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: The image above shows the possible squares the piece can move to.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == pieces.length`<br>   `n == positions.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 4`<br>   `pieces` only contains the strings `"rook "`, `"queen "`, and `"bishop "`.<br>   There will be at most one queen on the chessboard.<br>   `1 <= xi, yi <= 8`<br>   Each `positions[i]` is distinct."""<br><br>    if index == len(pieces):<br>        return 1<br><br>    r, c = positions[index]<br>    dr = [0, 1, 0, -1, 1, 1, -1, -1]<br>    dc = [1, 0, -1, 0, 1, -1, 1, -1]<br>    valids = 0<br><br>    for x in range(8):<br>        if pieces[index] == "bishop" and x < 4:<br>            continue<br>        if pieces[index] == "rook" and x = 4:<br>            break<br><br>        for dist in range(1, 9):<br>            nr, nc = r + dr[x]  dist, c + dc[x]  dist<br>            if nr < 1 or nr  8 or nc < 1 or nc  8:<br>                break<br>            if nr == r and nc == c:<br>                continue<br><br>            valid = True<br>            for other in range(len(positions)):<br>                if other == index:<br>                    continue<br>                orr, occ = positions[other]<br>                if orr == nr and occ == nc:<br>                    valid = False<br>                    break<br>                if orr + occ == nr + nc or orr - occ == nr - nc:<br>                    valid = False<br>                    break<br>                if orr == nr or occ == nc:<br>                    valid = False<br>                    break<br><br>            if valid:<br>                positions[index] = [nr, nc]<br>                valids += count_valid_combos(pieces, positions, index + 1)<br>                positions[index] = [r, c]<br><br>    return valids

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1508.txt
> def longestHappyPrefix(s):<br>    """You are given the array `nums` consisting of `n` positive integers. You computed the sum of all non-empty continuous subarrays from the array and then sorted them in non-decreasing order, creating a new array of `n  (n + 1) / 2` numbers.<br><br>_Return the sum of the numbers from index_ `left` _to index_ `right` (indexed from 1)_, inclusive, in the new array._ Since the answer can be a huge number return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\], n = 4, left = 1, right = 5<br>Output: 13 <br>Explanation: All subarray sums are 1, 3, 6, 10, 2, 5, 9, 3, 7, 4. After sorting them in non-decreasing order we have the new array \[1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10\]. The sum of the numbers from index le = 1 to ri = 5 is 1 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 = 13. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\], n = 4, left = 3, right = 4<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The given array is the same as example 1. We have the new array \[1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10\]. The sum of the numbers from index le = 3 to ri = 4 is 3 + 3 = 6.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4\], n = 4, left = 1, right = 10<br>Output: 50<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 100`<br>   `1 <= left <= right <= n  (n + 1) / 2`"""<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    lps = [0]  n<br>    length = 0<br>    i = 1<br>    while i < n:<br>        if s[i] == s[length]:<br>            length += 1<br>            lps[i] = length<br>            i += 1<br>        elif length != 0:<br>            length = lps[length - 1]<br>        else:<br>            lps[i] = 0<br>            i += 1<br>    return s[:lps[-1]]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2550.txt
> def ways_to_collide(n):<br>    """There is a regular convex polygon with `n` vertices. The vertices are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` in a clockwise direction, and each vertex has exactly one monkey. The following figure shows a convex polygon of `6` vertices.<br><br>Each monkey moves simultaneously to a neighboring vertex. A neighboring vertex for a vertex `i` can be:<br><br>   the vertex `(i + 1) % n` in the clockwise direction, or<br>   the vertex `(i - 1 + n) % n` in the counter-clockwise direction.<br><br>A collision happens if at least two monkeys reside on the same vertex after the movement or intersect on an edge.<br><br>Return _the number of ways the monkeys can move so that at least one collision_ _happens_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Note that each monkey can only move once.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: There are 8 total possible movements.<br>Two ways such that they collide at some point are:<br>- Monkey 1 moves in a clockwise direction; monkey 2 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 3 moves in a clockwise direction. Monkeys 1 and 2 collide.<br>- Monkey 1 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 2 moves in an anticlockwise direction; monkey 3 moves in a clockwise direction. Monkeys 1 and 3 collide.<br>It can be shown 6 total movements result in a collision.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: It can be shown that there are 14 ways for the monkeys to collide.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br>    return (pow(2, n, MOD) - n - 1 + MOD) % MOD


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_2312.txt
> def max_count_target(nums, key):<br>    """You are given two integers `m` and `n` that represent the height and width of a rectangular piece of wood. You are also given a 2D integer array `prices`, where `prices[i] = [hi, wi, pricei]` indicates you can sell a rectangular piece of wood of height `hi` and width `wi` for `pricei` dollars.<br><br>To cut a piece of wood, you must make a vertical or horizontal cut across the entire height or width of the piece to split it into two smaller pieces. After cutting a piece of wood into some number of smaller pieces, you can sell pieces according to `prices`. You may sell multiple pieces of the same shape, and you do not have to sell all the shapes. The grain of the wood makes a difference, so you cannot rotate a piece to swap its height and width.<br><br>Return _the maximum money you can earn after cutting an_ `m x n` _piece of wood_.<br><br>Note that you can cut the piece of wood as many times as you want.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: m = 3, n = 5, prices = \[\[1,4,2\],\[2,2,7\],\[2,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 19<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 2 pieces of wood shaped 2 x 2, selling for a price of 2 \ 7 = 14.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 2 x 1, selling for a price of 1 \ 3 = 3.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 14 + 3 + 2 = 19 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 19 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: m = 4, n = 6, prices = \[\[3,2,10\],\[1,4,2\],\[4,1,3\]\]<br>Output: 32<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a possible scenario. It consists of:<br>- 3 pieces of wood shaped 3 x 2, selling for a price of 3 \ 10 = 30.<br>- 1 piece of wood shaped 1 x 4, selling for a price of 1 \ 2 = 2.<br>This obtains a total of 30 + 2 = 32 money earned.<br>It can be shown that 32 is the maximum amount of money that can be earned.<br>Notice that we cannot rotate the 1 x 4 piece of wood to obtain a 4 x 1 piece of wood.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `1 <= prices.length <= 2  104`<br>   `prices[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= hi <= m`<br>   `1 <= wi <= n`<br>   `1 <= pricei <= 106`<br>   All the shapes of wood `(hi, wi)` are pairwise distinct."""<br><br>    count = {}<br>    max_count = 0<br>    max_target = -1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i - 1] == key:<br>            count[nums[i]] = count.get(nums[i], 0) + 1<br>            if count[nums[i]]  max_count:<br>                max_count = count[nums[i]]<br>                max_target = nums[i]<br>    return max_target
