# Query `66`

## Original Question

*We have a wooden plank of the length `n` units. Some ants are walking on the plank, each ant moves with a speed of 1 unit per second. Some of the ants move to the left, the other move to the right.

When two ants moving in two different directions meet at some point, they change their directions and continue moving again. Assume changing directions does not take any additional time.

When an ant reaches one end of the plank at a time `t`, it falls out of the plank immediately.

Given an integer `n` and two integer arrays `left` and `right`, the positions of the ants moving to the left and the right, return _the moment when the last ant(s) fall out of the plank_.

Example 1:

Input: n = 4, left = \[4,3\], right = \[0,1\]
Output: 4
Explanation: In the image above:
-The ant at index 0 is named A and going to the right.
-The ant at index 1 is named B and going to the right.
-The ant at index 3 is named C and going to the left.
-The ant at index 4 is named D and going to the left.
The last moment when an ant was on the plank is t = 4 seconds. After that, it falls immediately out of the plank. (i.e., We can say that at t = 4.0000000001, there are no ants on the plank).

Example 2:

Input: n = 7, left = \[\], right = \[0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7\]
Output: 7
Explanation: All ants are going to the right, the ant at index 0 needs 7 seconds to fall.

Example 3:

Input: n = 7, left = \[0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7\], right = \[\]
Output: 7
Explanation: All ants are going to the left, the ant at index 7 needs 7 seconds to fall.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 104`
   `0 <= left.length <= n + 1`
   `0 <= left[i] <= n`
   `0 <= right.length <= n + 1`
   `0 <= right[i] <= n`
   `1 <= left.length + right.length <= n + 1`
   All values of `left` and `right` are unique, and each value can appear only in one of the two arrays.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0909
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2789
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2789
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2789
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0909
map_cut_50: 0.0909
map_cut_100: 0.0909
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_906.txt
> class Solution:<br>    """Let's say a positive integer is a super-palindrome if it is a palindrome, and it is also the square of a palindrome.<br><br>Given two positive integers `left` and `right` represented as strings, return _the number of super-palindromes integers in the inclusive range_ `[left, right]`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: left =  "4 ", right =  "1000 "<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: 4, 9, 121, and 484 are superpalindromes.<br>Note that 676 is not a superpalindrome: 26 \ 26 = 676, but 26 is not a palindrome.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: left =  "1 ", right =  "2 "<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= left.length, right.length <= 18`<br>   `left` and `right` consist of only digits.<br>   `left` and `right` cannot have leading zeros.<br>   `left` and `right` represent integers in the range `[1, 1018 - 1]`.<br>   `left` is less than or equal to `right`."""<br><br>    def robotSim(self, commands: List[int], obstacles: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>        dx = [0, 1, 0, -1]<br>        dy = [1, 0, -1, 0]<br>        x = y = di = 0<br>        obstacleSet = set(map(tuple, obstacles))<br><br>        ans = 0<br>        for cmd in commands:<br>            if cmd == -2:<br>                di = (di - 1) % 4<br>            elif cmd == -1:<br>                di = (di + 1) % 4<br>            else:<br>                for k in range(cmd):<br>                    nx = x + dx[di]<br>                    ny = y + dy[di]<br>                    if (nx, ny) not in obstacleSet:<br>                        x = nx<br>                        y = ny<br>                        ans = max(ans, x  x + y  y)<br><br>        return ans

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2106.txt
> from math import gcd<br>    """Fruits are available at some positions on an infinite x-axis. You are given a 2D integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i] = [positioni, amounti]` depicts `amounti` fruits at the position `positioni`. `fruits` is already sorted by `positioni` in ascending order, and each `positioni` is unique.<br><br>You are also given an integer `startPos` and an integer `k`. Initially, you are at the position `startPos`. From any position, you can either walk to the left or right. It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis, and you can walk at most `k` steps in total. For every position you reach, you harvest all the fruits at that position, and the fruits will disappear from that position.<br><br>Return _the maximum total number of fruits you can harvest_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[2,8\],\[6,3\],\[8,6\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The optimal way is to:<br>- Move right to position 6 and harvest 3 fruits<br>- Move right to position 8 and harvest 6 fruits<br>You moved 3 steps and harvested 3 + 6 = 9 fruits in total.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[0,9\],\[4,1\],\[5,7\],\[6,2\],\[7,4\],\[10,9\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: <br>You can move at most k = 4 steps, so you cannot reach position 0 nor 10.<br>The optimal way is to:<br>- Harvest the 7 fruits at the starting position 5<br>- Move left to position 4 and harvest 1 fruit<br>- Move right to position 6 and harvest 2 fruits<br>- Move right to position 7 and harvest 4 fruits<br>You moved 1 + 3 = 4 steps and harvested 7 + 1 + 2 + 4 = 14 fruits in total.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[0,3\],\[6,4\],\[8,5\]\], startPos = 3, k = 2<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>You can move at most k = 2 steps and cannot reach any position with fruits.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`<br>   `fruits[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startPos, positioni <= 2  105`<br>   `positioni-1 < positioni` for any `i  0` (0-indexed)<br>   `1 <= amounti <= 104`<br>   `0 <= k <= 2  105`"""<br><br><br>def findGCD(nums):<br>    return gcd(min(nums), max(nums))

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_853.txt
> def max_profit_assignment(difficulty, profit, worker):<br>    """There are `n` cars going to the same destination along a one-lane road. The destination is `target` miles away.<br><br>You are given two integer array `position` and `speed`, both of length `n`, where `position[i]` is the position of the `ith` car and `speed[i]` is the speed of the `ith` car (in miles per hour).<br><br>A car can never pass another car ahead of it, but it can catch up to it and drive bumper to bumper at the same speed. The faster car will slow down to match the slower car's speed. The distance between these two cars is ignored (i.e., they are assumed to have the same position).<br><br>A car fleet is some non-empty set of cars driving at the same position and same speed. Note that a single car is also a car fleet.<br><br>If a car catches up to a car fleet right at the destination point, it will still be considered as one car fleet.<br><br>Return _the number of car fleets that will arrive at the destination_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = 12, position = \[10,8,0,5,3\], speed = \[2,4,1,1,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>The cars starting at 10 (speed 2) and 8 (speed 4) become a fleet, meeting each other at 12.<br>The car starting at 0 does not catch up to any other car, so it is a fleet by itself.<br>The cars starting at 5 (speed 1) and 3 (speed 3) become a fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.<br>Note that no other cars meet these fleets before the destination, so the answer is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = 10, position = \[3\], speed = \[3\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There is only one car, hence there is only one fleet.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = 100, position = \[0,2,4\], speed = \[4,2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>The cars starting at 0 (speed 4) and 2 (speed 2) become a fleet, meeting each other at 4. The fleet moves at speed 2.<br>Then, the fleet (speed 2) and the car starting at 4 (speed 1) become one fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == position.length == speed.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 < target <= 106`<br>   `0 <= position[i] < target`<br>   All the values of `position` are unique.<br>   `0 < speed[i] <= 106`"""<br><br>    jobs = sorted(zip(difficulty, profit))<br>    worker.sort()<br><br>    i, max_profit, total_profit = 0, 0, 0<br>    for ability in worker:<br>        while i < len(difficulty) and ability = jobs[i][0]:<br>            max_profit = max(max_profit, jobs[i][1])<br>            i += 1<br>        total_profit += max_profit<br>    return total_profit

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2463.txt
> def min_total_distance(robot: List[int], factory: List[List[int]]) - int:<br>    """There are some robots and factories on the X-axis. You are given an integer array `robot` where `robot[i]` is the position of the `ith` robot. You are also given a 2D integer array `factory` where `factory[j] = [positionj, limitj]` indicates that `positionj` is the position of the `jth` factory and that the `jth` factory can repair at most `limitj` robots.<br><br>The positions of each robot are unique. The positions of each factory are also unique. Note that a robot can be in the same position as a factory initially.<br><br>All the robots are initially broken; they keep moving in one direction. The direction could be the negative or the positive direction of the X-axis. When a robot reaches a factory that did not reach its limit, the factory repairs the robot, and it stops moving.<br><br>At any moment, you can set the initial direction of moving for some robot. Your target is to minimize the total distance traveled by all the robots.<br><br>Return _the minimum total distance traveled by all the robots_. The test cases are generated such that all the robots can be repaired.<br><br>Note that<br><br>   All robots move at the same speed.<br>   If two robots move in the same direction, they will never collide.<br>   If two robots move in opposite directions and they meet at some point, they do not collide. They cross each other.<br>   If a robot passes by a factory that reached its limits, it crosses it as if it does not exist.<br>   If the robot moved from a position `x` to a position `y`, the distance it moved is `|y - x|`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: robot = \[0,4,6\], factory = \[\[2,2\],\[6,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: As shown in the figure:<br>- The first robot at position 0 moves in the positive direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>- The second robot at position 4 moves in the negative direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>- The third robot at position 6 will be repaired at the second factory. It does not need to move.<br>The limit of the first factory is 2, and it fixed 2 robots.<br>The limit of the second factory is 2, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The total distance is |2 - 0| + |2 - 4| + |6 - 6| = 4. It can be shown that we cannot achieve a better total distance than 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: robot = \[1,-1\], factory = \[\[-2,1\],\[2,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: As shown in the figure:<br>- The first robot at position 1 moves in the positive direction. It will be repaired at the second factory.<br>- The second robot at position -1 moves in the negative direction. It will be repaired at the first factory.<br>The limit of the first factory is 1, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The limit of the second factory is 1, and it fixed 1 robot.<br>The total distance is |2 - 1| + |(-2) - (-1)| = 2. It can be shown that we cannot achieve a better total distance than 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= robot.length, factory.length <= 100`<br>   `factory[j].length == 2`<br>   `-109 <= robot[i], positionj <= 109`<br>   `0 <= limitj <= robot.length`<br>   The input will be generated such that it is always possible to repair every robot."""<br><br>    robot.sort()<br>    factory.sort()<br><br>    res = 0<br>    idx = 0<br>    for f_pos, f_limit in factory:<br>        while f_limit  0 and idx < len(robot):<br>            res += abs(f_pos - robot[idx])<br>            idx += 1<br>            f_limit -= 1<br>    <br>    return res

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2515.txt
> def shortest_distance(words, target, startIndex):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed circular string array `words` and a string `target`. A circular array means that the array's end connects to the array's beginning.<br><br>   Formally, the next element of `words[i]` is `words[(i + 1) % n]` and the previous element of `words[i]` is `words[(i - 1 + n) % n]`, where `n` is the length of `words`.<br><br>Starting from `startIndex`, you can move to either the next word or the previous word with `1` step at a time.<br><br>Return _the shortest distance needed to reach the string_ `target`. If the string `target` does not exist in `words`, return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "hello ", "i ", "am ", "leetcode ", "hello "\], target =  "hello ", startIndex = 1<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: We start from index 1 and can reach  "hello " by<br>- moving 3 units to the right to reach index 4.<br>- moving 2 units to the left to reach index 4.<br>- moving 4 units to the right to reach index 0.<br>- moving 1 unit to the left to reach index 0.<br>The shortest distance to reach  "hello " is 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "a ", "b ", "leetcode "\], target =  "leetcode ", startIndex = 0<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: We start from index 0 and can reach  "leetcode " by<br>- moving 2 units to the right to reach index 3.<br>- moving 1 unit to the left to reach index 3.<br>The shortest distance to reach  "leetcode " is 1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "i ", "eat ", "leetcode "\], target =  "ate ", startIndex = 0<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: Since  "ate " does not exist in `words`, we return -1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= words.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= words[i].length <= 100`<br>   `words[i]` and `target` consist of only lowercase English letters.<br>   `0 <= startIndex < words.length`"""<br><br>    n = len(words)<br>    left, right, i = 0, 0, startIndex<br>    while True:<br>        if words[i] == target:<br>            return min(left, right)<br>        left += 1<br>        right += 1<br>        i = (i + 1) % n<br>        if left == n:<br>            break<br>    return -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 10, leetcode/leetcode_2211.txt
> def k_radius_average(nums, k):<br>    """There are `n` cars on an infinitely long road. The cars are numbered from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right and each car is present at a unique point.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed string `directions` of length `n`. `directions[i]` can be either `'L'`, `'R'`, or `'S'` denoting whether the `ith` car is moving towards the left, towards the right, or staying at its current point respectively. Each moving car has the same speed.<br><br>The number of collisions can be calculated as follows:<br><br>   When two cars moving in opposite directions collide with each other, the number of collisions increases by `2`.<br>   When a moving car collides with a stationary car, the number of collisions increases by `1`.<br><br>After a collision, the cars involved can no longer move and will stay at the point where they collided. Other than that, cars cannot change their state or direction of motion.<br><br>Return _the total number of collisions that will happen on the road_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: directions =  "RLRSLL "<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>The collisions that will happen on the road are:<br>- Cars 0 and 1 will collide with each other. Since they are moving in opposite directions, the number of collisions becomes 0 + 2 = 2.<br>- Cars 2 and 3 will collide with each other. Since car 3 is stationary, the number of collisions becomes 2 + 1 = 3.<br>- Cars 3 and 4 will collide with each other. Since car 3 is stationary, the number of collisions becomes 3 + 1 = 4.<br>- Cars 4 and 5 will collide with each other. After car 4 collides with car 3, it will stay at the point of collision and get hit by car 5. The number of collisions becomes 4 + 1 = 5.<br>Thus, the total number of collisions that will happen on the road is 5. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: directions =  "LLRR "<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>No cars will collide with each other. Thus, the total number of collisions that will happen on the road is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= directions.length <= 105`<br>   `directions[i]` is either `'L'`, `'R'`, or `'S'`."""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    avgs = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(k, n - k):<br>        sum = 0<br>        for j in range(i - k, i + k + 1):<br>            sum += nums[j]<br>        avgs[i] = sum // (2  k + 1)<br>    return avgs
