# Query `67`

## Original Question

*Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.

Initially, there are `n` stones in a pile. On each player's turn, that player makes a _move_ consisting of removing any non-zero square number of stones in the pile.

Also, if a player cannot make a move, he/she loses the game.

Given a positive integer `n`, return `true` if and only if Alice wins the game otherwise return `false`, assuming both players play optimally.

Example 1:

Input: n = 1
Output: true
Explanation: Alice can remove 1 stone winning the game because Bob doesn't have any moves.

Example 2:

Input: n = 2
Output: false
Explanation: Alice can only remove 1 stone, after that Bob removes the last one winning the game (2 -> 1 -> 0).

Example 3:

Input: n = 4
Output: true
Explanation: n is already a perfect square, Alice can win with one move, removing 4 stones (4 -> 0).

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.8000
P_10: 0.5000
P_25: 0.2000
P_50: 0.1000
P_100: 0.0500
recall_1: 0.2000
recall_5: 0.8000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.8688
ndcg_cut_10: 0.9896
ndcg_cut_25: 0.9896
ndcg_cut_50: 0.9896
ndcg_cut_100: 0.9896
map_cut_1: 0.2000
map_cut_5: 0.8000
map_cut_10: 0.9667
map_cut_25: 0.9667
map_cut_50: 0.9667
map_cut_100: 0.9667
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1686.txt
> def stoneGameVI(aliceValues, bobValues):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones in a pile. On each player's turn, they can remove a stone from the pile and receive points based on the stone's value. Alice and Bob may value the stones differently.<br><br>You are given two integer arrays of length `n`, `aliceValues` and `bobValues`. Each `aliceValues[i]` and `bobValues[i]` represents how Alice and Bob, respectively, value the `ith` stone.<br><br>The winner is the person with the most points after all the stones are chosen. If both players have the same amount of points, the game results in a draw. Both players will play optimally. Both players know the other's values.<br><br>Determine the result of the game, and:<br><br>   If Alice wins, return `1`.<br>   If Bob wins, return `-1`.<br>   If the game results in a draw, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,3\], bobValues = \[2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 1 (0-indexed) first, Alice will receive 3 points.<br>Bob can only choose stone 0, and will only receive 2 points.<br>Alice wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,2\], bobValues = \[3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 0, and Bob takes stone 1, they will both have 1 point.<br>Draw.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[2,4,3\], bobValues = \[1,6,7\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>Regardless of how Alice plays, Bob will be able to have more points than Alice.<br>For example, if Alice takes stone 1, Bob can take stone 2, and Alice takes stone 0, Alice will have 6 points to Bob's 7.<br>Bob wins.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == aliceValues.length == bobValues.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= aliceValues[i], bobValues[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    n = len(aliceValues)<br>    diff = sorted([(aliceValues[i] + bobValues[i], i) for i in range(n)], reverse=True)<br><br>    aliceSum, bobSum = 0, 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if i % 2 == 0:<br>            aliceSum += aliceValues[diff[i][1]]<br>        else:<br>            bobSum += bobValues[diff[i][1]]<br>            <br>    return 0 if aliceSum == bobSum else (1 if aliceSum  bobSum else -1)

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2029.txt
> def stoneGameIX(stones: List[int]) - bool:<br>    """Alice and Bob continue their games with stones. There is a row of n stones, and each stone has an associated value. You are given an integer array `stones`, where `stones[i]` is the value of the `ith` stone.<br><br>Alice and Bob take turns, with Alice starting first. On each turn, the player may remove any stone from `stones`. The player who removes a stone loses if the sum of the values of all removed stones is divisible by `3`. Bob will win automatically if there are no remaining stones (even if it is Alice's turn).<br><br>Assuming both players play optimally, return `true` _if Alice wins and_ `false` _if Bob wins_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2,1\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The game will be played as follows:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove either stone.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the remaining stone. <br>The sum of the removed stones is 1 + 2 = 3 and is divisible by 3. Therefore, Bob loses and Alice wins the game.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Alice will remove the only stone, and the sum of the values on the removed stones is 2. <br>Since all the stones are removed and the sum of values is not divisible by 3, Bob wins the game.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,1,2,4,3\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Bob will always win. One possible way for Bob to win is shown below:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove the second stone with value 1. Sum of removed stones = 1.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the fifth stone with value 3. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 = 4.<br>- Turn 3: Alices removes the fourth stone with value 4. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 = 8.<br>- Turn 4: Bob removes the third stone with value 2. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 = 10.<br>- Turn 5: Alice removes the first stone with value 5. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 + 5 = 15.<br>Alice loses the game because the sum of the removed stones (15) is divisible by 3. Bob wins the game.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    cnt = [0, 0, 0]<br>    for s in stones:<br>        cnt[s % 3] += 1<br>    return (cnt[1] and cnt[2]) or (cnt[1]  cnt[2] if cnt[1]  cnt[2] + 2 else cnt[2]  cnt[1] + 1)

### DOC[3] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1690.txt
> def getMaxLen(nums):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, they can remove either the leftmost stone or the rightmost stone from the row and receive points equal to the sum of the remaining stones' values in the row. The winner is the one with the higher score when there are no stones left to remove.<br><br>Bob found that he will always lose this game (poor Bob, he always loses), so he decided to minimize the score's difference. Alice's goal is to maximize the difference in the score.<br><br>Given an array of integers `stones` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the difference in Alice and Bob's score if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,3,1,4,2\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>- Alice removes 2 and gets 5 + 3 + 1 + 4 = 13 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 0, stones = \[5,3,1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 5 and gets 3 + 1 + 4 = 8 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 8, stones = \[3,1,4\].<br>- Alice removes 3 and gets 1 + 4 = 5 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 8, stones = \[1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 1 and gets 4 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[4\].<br>- Alice removes 4 and gets 0 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[\].<br>The score difference is 18 - 12 = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,90,5,1,100,10,10,2\]<br>Output: 122<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    maxLength = currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>    <br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num  0:<br>            currentLen += 1<br>            if currentNegLen  0:<br>                currentNegLen += 1<br>        elif num < 0:<br>            currentLen, currentNegLen = currentNegLen, currentLen + 1<br>        else:<br>            currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>        maxLength = max(maxLength, currentLen)<br>    <br>    return maxLength

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1872.txt
> def can_eat(candiesCount, queries):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, while the number of stones is more than one, they will do the following:<br><br>1.  Choose an integer `x  1`, and remove the leftmost `x` stones from the row.<br>2.  Add the sum of the removed stones' values to the player's score.<br>3.  Place a new stone, whose value is equal to that sum, on the left side of the row.<br><br>The game stops when only one stone is left in the row.<br><br>The score difference between Alice and Bob is `(Alice's score - Bob's score)`. Alice's goal is to maximize the score difference, and Bob's goal is the minimize the score difference.<br><br>Given an integer array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the score difference between Alice and Bob if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-1,2,-3,4,-5\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes the first 4 stones, adds (-1) + 2 + (-3) + 4 = 2 to her score, and places a stone of<br>  value 2 on the left. stones = \[2,-5\].<br>- Bob removes the first 2 stones, adds 2 + (-5) = -3 to his score, and places a stone of value -3 on<br>  the left. stones = \[-3\].<br>The difference between their scores is 2 - (-3) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,-6,5,10,5,-2,-6\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes all stones, adds 7 + (-6) + 5 + 10 + 5 + (-2) + (-6) = 13 to her score, and places a<br>  stone of value 13 on the left. stones = \[13\].<br>The difference between their scores is 13 - 0 = 13.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-10,-12\]<br>Output: -22<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice can only make one move, which is to remove both stones. She adds (-10) + (-12) = -22 to her<br>  score and places a stone of value -22 on the left. stones = \[-22\].<br>The difference between their scores is (-22) - 0 = -22.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    prefix_sum = [0]  (len(candiesCount) + 1)<br>    for i in range(len(candiesCount)):<br>        prefix_sum[i + 1] = prefix_sum[i] + candiesCount[i]<br><br>    result = [False]  len(queries)<br>    for i in range(len(queries)):<br>        favoriteType, favoriteDay, dailyCap = queries[i]<br>        x1 = favoriteDay + 1<br>        y1 = (favoriteDay + 1)  dailyCap<br><br>        x2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType] + 1<br>        y2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType + 1]<br><br>        result[i] = not (x1  y2 or y1 < x2)<br><br>    return result

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2467.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There is an undirected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`, rooted at node `0`. You are given a 2D integer array `edges` of length `n - 1` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>At every node `i`, there is a gate. You are also given an array of even integers `amount`, where `amount[i]` represents:<br><br>   the price needed to open the gate at node `i`, if `amount[i]` is negative, or,<br>   the cash reward obtained on opening the gate at node `i`, otherwise.<br><br>The game goes on as follows:<br><br>   Initially, Alice is at node `0` and Bob is at node `bob`.<br>   At every second, Alice and Bob each move to an adjacent node. Alice moves towards some leaf node, while Bob moves towards node `0`.<br>   For every node along their path, Alice and Bob either spend money to open the gate at that node, or accept the reward. Note that:<br>       If the gate is already open, no price will be required, nor will there be any cash reward.<br>       If Alice and Bob reach the node simultaneously, they share the price/reward for opening the gate there. In other words, if the price to open the gate is `c`, then both Alice and Bob pay `c / 2` each. Similarly, if the reward at the gate is `c`, both of them receive `c / 2` each.<br>   If Alice reaches a leaf node, she stops moving. Similarly, if Bob reaches node `0`, he stops moving. Note that these events are independent of each other.<br><br>Return _the maximum net income Alice can have if she travels towards the optimal leaf node._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,4\]\], bob = 3, amount = \[-2,4,2,-4,6\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>The above diagram represents the given tree. The game goes as follows:<br>- Alice is initially on node 0, Bob on node 3. They open the gates of their respective nodes.<br>  Alice's net income is now -2.<br>- Both Alice and Bob move to node 1. <br>  Since they reach here simultaneously, they open the gate together and share the reward.<br>  Alice's net income becomes -2 + (4 / 2) = 0.<br>- Alice moves on to node 3. Since Bob already opened its gate, Alice's income remains unchanged.<br>  Bob moves on to node 0, and stops moving.<br>- Alice moves on to node 4 and opens the gate there. Her net income becomes 0 + 6 = 6.<br>Now, neither Alice nor Bob can make any further moves, and the game ends.<br>It is not possible for Alice to get a higher net income.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\]\], bob = 1, amount = \[-7280,2350\]<br>Output: -7280<br>Explanation: <br>Alice follows the path 0-1 whereas Bob follows the path 1-0.<br>Thus, Alice opens the gate at node 0 only. Hence, her net income is -7280. <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree.<br>   `1 <= bob < n`<br>   `amount.length == n`<br>   `amount[i]` is an even integer in the range `[-104, 104]`."""<br><br><br>def dfs(node, parent, bob, time, alice_income, res, amount, tree):<br>    if time < bob or amount[node] = 0:<br>        alice_income += amount[node]<br>    else:<br>        alice_income += amount[node] // 2<br>    amount[node] = 0<br>    is_leaf = True<br>    for child in tree[node]:<br>        if child != parent:<br>            is_leaf = False<br>            dfs(child, node, bob, time + 1, alice_income, res, amount, tree)<br>    if is_leaf:<br>        res[0] = max(res[0], alice_income)<br><br>def maxNetIncome(edges, bob, amount):<br>    tree = defaultdict(list)<br>    for edge in edges:<br>        tree[edge[0]].append(edge[1])<br>        tree[edge[1]].append(edge[0])<br>    res = [-100000]<br>    dfs(0, -1, bob, 0, 0, res, amount, tree)<br>    return res[0]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 5, leetcode/leetcode_1563.txt
> from math import acos, cos, sin, sqrt<br>    """There are several stones arranged in a row, and each stone has an associated value which is an integer given in the array `stoneValue`.<br><br>In each round of the game, Alice divides the row into two non-empty rows (i.e. left row and right row), then Bob calculates the value of each row which is the sum of the values of all the stones in this row. Bob throws away the row which has the maximum value, and Alice's score increases by the value of the remaining row. If the value of the two rows are equal, Bob lets Alice decide which row will be thrown away. The next round starts with the remaining row.<br><br>The game ends when there is only one stone remaining. Alice's is initially zero.<br><br>Return _the maximum score that Alice can obtain_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stoneValue = \[6,2,3,4,5,5\]<br>Output: 18<br>Explanation: In the first round, Alice divides the row to \[6,2,3\], \[4,5,5\]. The left row has the value 11 and the right row has value 14. Bob throws away the right row and Alice's score is now 11.<br>In the second round Alice divides the row to \[6\], \[2,3\]. This time Bob throws away the left row and Alice's score becomes 16 (11 + 5).<br>The last round Alice has only one choice to divide the row which is \[2\], \[3\]. Bob throws away the right row and Alice's score is now 18 (16 + 2). The game ends because only one stone is remaining in the row.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stoneValue = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\]<br>Output: 28<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stoneValue = \[4\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stoneValue.length <= 500`<br>   `1 <= stoneValue[i] <= 106`"""<br><br><br>def max_number_of_darts(darts, r):<br>    n = len(darts)<br>    max_darts = 1<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            dist = sqrt((darts[j][0] - darts[i][0])2 + (darts[j][1] - darts[i][1])2)<br>            if dist  2.0  r: continue<br><br>            angle = acos(dist / (2.0  r))<br>            for k in range(2):<br>                loc_angle = angle  (1 if k == 0 else -1)<br>                cx = darts[i][0] + r  (darts[j][0] - darts[i][0]) / dist  cos(loc_angle) - r  (darts[j][1] - darts[i][1]) / dist  sin(loc_angle)<br>                cy = darts[i][1] + r  (darts[j][0] - darts[i][0]) / dist  sin(loc_angle) + r  (darts[j][1] - darts[i][1]) / dist  cos(loc_angle)<br><br>                cnt = 0<br>                for l in range(n):<br>                    new_dist = sqrt((darts[l][0] - cx)2 + (darts[l][1] - cy)2)<br>                    if new_dist <= r + 1e-5: cnt += 1<br><br>                max_darts = max(max_darts, cnt)<br><br>    return max_darts

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_1686.txt
> def stoneGameVI(aliceValues, bobValues):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones in a pile. On each player's turn, they can remove a stone from the pile and receive points based on the stone's value. Alice and Bob may value the stones differently.<br><br>You are given two integer arrays of length `n`, `aliceValues` and `bobValues`. Each `aliceValues[i]` and `bobValues[i]` represents how Alice and Bob, respectively, value the `ith` stone.<br><br>The winner is the person with the most points after all the stones are chosen. If both players have the same amount of points, the game results in a draw. Both players will play optimally. Both players know the other's values.<br><br>Determine the result of the game, and:<br><br>   If Alice wins, return `1`.<br>   If Bob wins, return `-1`.<br>   If the game results in a draw, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,3\], bobValues = \[2,1\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 1 (0-indexed) first, Alice will receive 3 points.<br>Bob can only choose stone 0, and will only receive 2 points.<br>Alice wins.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[1,2\], bobValues = \[3,1\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>If Alice takes stone 0, and Bob takes stone 1, they will both have 1 point.<br>Draw.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: aliceValues = \[2,4,3\], bobValues = \[1,6,7\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>Regardless of how Alice plays, Bob will be able to have more points than Alice.<br>For example, if Alice takes stone 1, Bob can take stone 2, and Alice takes stone 0, Alice will have 6 points to Bob's 7.<br>Bob wins.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == aliceValues.length == bobValues.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= aliceValues[i], bobValues[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    n = len(aliceValues)<br>    diff = sorted([(aliceValues[i] + bobValues[i], i) for i in range(n)], reverse=True)<br><br>    aliceSum, bobSum = 0, 0<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if i % 2 == 0:<br>            aliceSum += aliceValues[diff[i][1]]<br>        else:<br>            bobSum += bobValues[diff[i][1]]<br>            <br>    return 0 if aliceSum == bobSum else (1 if aliceSum  bobSum else -1)

### GROUND TRUTH 2, ranked 2, leetcode/leetcode_1690.txt
> def getMaxLen(nums):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, they can remove either the leftmost stone or the rightmost stone from the row and receive points equal to the sum of the remaining stones' values in the row. The winner is the one with the higher score when there are no stones left to remove.<br><br>Bob found that he will always lose this game (poor Bob, he always loses), so he decided to minimize the score's difference. Alice's goal is to maximize the difference in the score.<br><br>Given an array of integers `stones` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the difference in Alice and Bob's score if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,3,1,4,2\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: <br>- Alice removes 2 and gets 5 + 3 + 1 + 4 = 13 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 0, stones = \[5,3,1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 5 and gets 3 + 1 + 4 = 8 points. Alice = 13, Bob = 8, stones = \[3,1,4\].<br>- Alice removes 3 and gets 1 + 4 = 5 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 8, stones = \[1,4\].<br>- Bob removes 1 and gets 4 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[4\].<br>- Alice removes 4 and gets 0 points. Alice = 18, Bob = 12, stones = \[\].<br>The score difference is 18 - 12 = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,90,5,1,100,10,10,2\]<br>Output: 122<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    maxLength = currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>    <br>    for num in nums:<br>        if num  0:<br>            currentLen += 1<br>            if currentNegLen  0:<br>                currentNegLen += 1<br>        elif num < 0:<br>            currentLen, currentNegLen = currentNegLen, currentLen + 1<br>        else:<br>            currentLen = currentNegLen = 0<br>        maxLength = max(maxLength, currentLen)<br>    <br>    return maxLength

### GROUND TRUTH 3, ranked 3, leetcode/leetcode_1872.txt
> def can_eat(candiesCount, queries):<br>    """Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.<br><br>There are `n` stones arranged in a row. On each player's turn, while the number of stones is more than one, they will do the following:<br><br>1.  Choose an integer `x  1`, and remove the leftmost `x` stones from the row.<br>2.  Add the sum of the removed stones' values to the player's score.<br>3.  Place a new stone, whose value is equal to that sum, on the left side of the row.<br><br>The game stops when only one stone is left in the row.<br><br>The score difference between Alice and Bob is `(Alice's score - Bob's score)`. Alice's goal is to maximize the score difference, and Bob's goal is the minimize the score difference.<br><br>Given an integer array `stones` of length `n` where `stones[i]` represents the value of the `ith` stone from the left, return _the score difference between Alice and Bob if they both play optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-1,2,-3,4,-5\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes the first 4 stones, adds (-1) + 2 + (-3) + 4 = 2 to her score, and places a stone of<br>  value 2 on the left. stones = \[2,-5\].<br>- Bob removes the first 2 stones, adds 2 + (-5) = -3 to his score, and places a stone of value -3 on<br>  the left. stones = \[-3\].<br>The difference between their scores is 2 - (-3) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[7,-6,5,10,5,-2,-6\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice removes all stones, adds 7 + (-6) + 5 + 10 + 5 + (-2) + (-6) = 13 to her score, and places a<br>  stone of value 13 on the left. stones = \[13\].<br>The difference between their scores is 13 - 0 = 13.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[-10,-12\]<br>Output: -22<br>Explanation:<br>- Alice can only make one move, which is to remove both stones. She adds (-10) + (-12) = -22 to her<br>  score and places a stone of value -22 on the left. stones = \[-22\].<br>The difference between their scores is (-22) - 0 = -22.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == stones.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    prefix_sum = [0]  (len(candiesCount) + 1)<br>    for i in range(len(candiesCount)):<br>        prefix_sum[i + 1] = prefix_sum[i] + candiesCount[i]<br><br>    result = [False]  len(queries)<br>    for i in range(len(queries)):<br>        favoriteType, favoriteDay, dailyCap = queries[i]<br>        x1 = favoriteDay + 1<br>        y1 = (favoriteDay + 1)  dailyCap<br><br>        x2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType] + 1<br>        y2 = prefix_sum[favoriteType + 1]<br><br>        result[i] = not (x1  y2 or y1 < x2)<br><br>    return result

### GROUND TRUTH 4, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_2029.txt
> def stoneGameIX(stones: List[int]) - bool:<br>    """Alice and Bob continue their games with stones. There is a row of n stones, and each stone has an associated value. You are given an integer array `stones`, where `stones[i]` is the value of the `ith` stone.<br><br>Alice and Bob take turns, with Alice starting first. On each turn, the player may remove any stone from `stones`. The player who removes a stone loses if the sum of the values of all removed stones is divisible by `3`. Bob will win automatically if there are no remaining stones (even if it is Alice's turn).<br><br>Assuming both players play optimally, return `true` _if Alice wins and_ `false` _if Bob wins_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2,1\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: The game will be played as follows:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove either stone.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the remaining stone. <br>The sum of the removed stones is 1 + 2 = 3 and is divisible by 3. Therefore, Bob loses and Alice wins the game.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: stones = \[2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Alice will remove the only stone, and the sum of the values on the removed stones is 2. <br>Since all the stones are removed and the sum of values is not divisible by 3, Bob wins the game.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: stones = \[5,1,2,4,3\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Bob will always win. One possible way for Bob to win is shown below:<br>- Turn 1: Alice can remove the second stone with value 1. Sum of removed stones = 1.<br>- Turn 2: Bob removes the fifth stone with value 3. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 = 4.<br>- Turn 3: Alices removes the fourth stone with value 4. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 = 8.<br>- Turn 4: Bob removes the third stone with value 2. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 = 10.<br>- Turn 5: Alice removes the first stone with value 5. Sum of removed stones = 1 + 3 + 4 + 2 + 5 = 15.<br>Alice loses the game because the sum of the removed stones (15) is divisible by 3. Bob wins the game.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= stones.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= stones[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    cnt = [0, 0, 0]<br>    for s in stones:<br>        cnt[s % 3] += 1<br>    return (cnt[1] and cnt[2]) or (cnt[1]  cnt[2] if cnt[1]  cnt[2] + 2 else cnt[2]  cnt[1] + 1)
