# Query `69`

## Original Question

*In the universe Earth C-137, Rick discovered a special form of magnetic force between two balls if they are put in his new invented basket. Rick has `n` empty baskets, the `ith` basket is at `position[i]`, Morty has `m` balls and needs to distribute the balls into the baskets such that the minimum magnetic force between any two balls is maximum.

Rick stated that magnetic force between two different balls at positions `x` and `y` is `|x - y|`.

Given the integer array `position` and the integer `m`. Return _the required force_.

Example 1:

Input: position = \[1,2,3,4,7\], m = 3
Output: 3
Explanation: Distributing the 3 balls into baskets 1, 4 and 7 will make the magnetic force between ball pairs \[3, 3, 6\]. The minimum magnetic force is 3. We cannot achieve a larger minimum magnetic force than 3.

Example 2:

Input: position = \[5,4,3,2,1,1000000000\], m = 2
Output: 999999999
Explanation: We can use baskets 1 and 1000000000.

Constraints:

   `n == position.length`
   `2 <= n <= 105`
   `1 <= position[i] <= 109`
   All integers in `position` are distinct.
   `2 <= m <= position.length`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1429
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3333
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3333
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1429
map_cut_25: 0.1429
map_cut_50: 0.1429
map_cut_100: 0.1429
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2561.txt
> def min_cost_to_equal_baskets(basket1, basket2):<br>    """You have two fruit baskets containing `n` fruits each. You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `basket1` and `basket2` representing the cost of fruit in each basket. You want to make both baskets equal. To do so, you can use the following operation as many times as you want:<br><br>   Chose two indices `i` and `j`, and swap the `ith` fruit of `basket1` with the `jth` fruit of `basket2`.<br>   The cost of the swap is `min(basket1[i],basket2[j])`.<br><br>Two baskets are considered equal if sorting them according to the fruit cost makes them exactly the same baskets.<br><br>Return _the minimum cost to make both the baskets equal or_ `-1` _if impossible._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: basket1 = \[4,2,2,2\], basket2 = \[1,4,1,2\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: Swap index 1 of basket1 with index 0 of basket2, which has cost 1. Now basket1 = \[4,1,2,2\] and basket2 = \[2,4,1,2\]. Rearranging both the arrays makes them equal.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: basket1 = \[2,3,4,1\], basket2 = \[3,2,5,1\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: It can be shown that it is impossible to make both the baskets equal.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `basket1.length == bakste2.length`<br>   `1 <= basket1.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= basket1[i],basket2[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>    diff_count = {}<br>    for i in range(len(basket1)):<br>        diff = basket1[i] - basket2[i]<br>        diff_count[diff] = diff_count.get(diff, 0) + 1<br><br>    min_cost = float('inf')<br>    for diff, count in diff_count.items():<br>        if count == diff_count.get(-diff, 0):<br>            cost = sum(min(basket1[i], basket2[i]) for i in range(len(basket1)) if basket1[i] - basket2[i] == diff)<br>            min_cost = min(min_cost, cost)<br><br>    return -1 if min_cost == float('inf') else min_cost // 2

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_904.txt
> def leafSimilar(root1, root2):<br>    """You are visiting a farm that has a single row of fruit trees arranged from left to right. The trees are represented by an integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i]` is the type of fruit the `ith` tree produces.<br><br>You want to collect as much fruit as possible. However, the owner has some strict rules that you must follow:<br><br>   You only have two baskets, and each basket can only hold a single type of fruit. There is no limit on the amount of fruit each basket can hold.<br>   Starting from any tree of your choice, you must pick exactly one fruit from every tree (including the start tree) while moving to the right. The picked fruits must fit in one of your baskets.<br>   Once you reach a tree with fruit that cannot fit in your baskets, you must stop.<br><br>Given the integer array `fruits`, return _the maximum number of fruits you can pick_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[1,2,1\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can pick from all 3 trees.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[0,1,2,2\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: We can pick from trees \[1,2,2\].<br>If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[0,1\].<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[1,2,3,2,2\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: We can pick from trees \[2,3,2,2\].<br>If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees \[1,2\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= fruits[i] < fruits.length`"""<br><br>    def getLeaves(node):<br>        if not node:<br>            return []<br>        if not node.left and not node.right:<br>            return [node.val]<br>        return getLeaves(node.left) + getLeaves(node.right)<br><br>    return getLeaves(root1) == getLeaves(root2)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1467.txt
> from math import factorial<br>    """Given `2n` balls of `k` distinct colors. You will be given an integer array `balls` of size `k` where `balls[i]` is the number of balls of color `i`.<br><br>All the balls will be shuffled uniformly at random, then we will distribute the first `n` balls to the first box and the remaining `n` balls to the other box (Please read the explanation of the second example carefully).<br><br>Please note that the two boxes are considered different. For example, if we have two balls of colors `a` and `b`, and two boxes `[]` and `()`, then the distribution `[a] (b)` is considered different than the distribution `[b] (a)` (Please read the explanation of the first example carefully).<br><br>Return _the probability_ that the two boxes have the same number of distinct balls. Answers within `10-5` of the actual value will be accepted as correct.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: balls = \[1,1\]<br>Output: 1.00000<br>Explanation: Only 2 ways to divide the balls equally:<br>- A ball of color 1 to box 1 and a ball of color 2 to box 2<br>- A ball of color 2 to box 1 and a ball of color 1 to box 2<br>In both ways, the number of distinct colors in each box is equal. The probability is 2/2 = 1<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: balls = \[2,1,1\]<br>Output: 0.66667<br>Explanation: We have the set of balls \[1, 1, 2, 3\]<br>This set of balls will be shuffled randomly and we may have one of the 12 distinct shuffles with equal probability (i.e. 1/12):<br>\[1,1 / 2,3\], \[1,1 / 3,2\], \[1,2 / 1,3\], \[1,2 / 3,1\], \[1,3 / 1,2\], \[1,3 / 2,1\], \[2,1 / 1,3\], \[2,1 / 3,1\], \[2,3 / 1,1\], \[3,1 / 1,2\], \[3,1 / 2,1\], \[3,2 / 1,1\]<br>After that, we add the first two balls to the first box and the second two balls to the second box.<br>We can see that 8 of these 12 possible random distributions have the same number of distinct colors of balls in each box.<br>Probability is 8/12 = 0.66667<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: balls = \[1,2,1,2\]<br>Output: 0.60000<br>Explanation: The set of balls is \[1, 2, 2, 3, 4, 4\]. It is hard to display all the 180 possible random shuffles of this set but it is easy to check that 108 of them will have the same number of distinct colors in each box.<br>Probability = 108 / 180 = 0.6<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= balls.length <= 8`<br>   `1 <= balls[i] <= 6`<br>   `sum(balls)` is even."""<br><br><br>def count_combinations(balls, combinations, curr_ball):<br>    total_combinations = 1<br>    for i in range(curr_ball):<br>        total_combinations = factorial(balls[i] + combinations[i]) / (factorial(balls[i])  factorial(combinations[i]))<br><br>    return total_combinations<br><br>def dfs(balls, combinations, curr_ball):<br>    if curr_ball == len(balls):<br>        if combinations[-1] == combinations[0]:<br>            return count_combinations(balls, combinations, curr_ball)<br>        else:<br>            return 0<br><br>    result = 0<br>    for i in range(balls[curr_ball] + 1):<br>        combinations.append(i)<br>        result += dfs(balls, combinations, curr_ball + 1)<br>        combinations.pop()<br><br>    return result<br><br>def get_probability(balls):<br>    sum_balls = sum(balls)<br><br>    total_combinations = 1<br>    for ball in balls:<br>        total_combinations = factorial(ball)<br><br>    combinations = []<br>    return dfs(balls, combinations, 0) / total_combinations

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2513.txt
> def minimum_possible_max(divisor1, divisor2, unique_cnt1, unique_cnt2):<br>    """We have two arrays `arr1` and `arr2` which are initially empty. You need to add positive integers to them such that they satisfy all the following conditions:<br><br>   `arr1` contains `uniqueCnt1` distinct positive integers, each of which is not divisible by `divisor1`.<br>   `arr2` contains `uniqueCnt2` distinct positive integers, each of which is not divisible by `divisor2`.<br>   No integer is present in both `arr1` and `arr2`.<br><br>Given `divisor1`, `divisor2`, `uniqueCnt1`, and `uniqueCnt2`, return _the minimum possible maximum integer that can be present in either array_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: divisor1 = 2, divisor2 = 7, uniqueCnt1 = 1, uniqueCnt2 = 3<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: <br>We can distribute the first 4 natural numbers into arr1 and arr2.<br>arr1 = \[1\] and arr2 = \[2,3,4\].<br>We can see that both arrays satisfy all the conditions.<br>Since the maximum value is 4, we return it.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: divisor1 = 3, divisor2 = 5, uniqueCnt1 = 2, uniqueCnt2 = 1<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: <br>Here arr1 = \[1,2\], and arr2 = \[3\] satisfy all conditions.<br>Since the maximum value is 3, we return it.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: divisor1 = 2, divisor2 = 4, uniqueCnt1 = 8, uniqueCnt2 = 2<br>Output: 15<br>Explanation: <br>Here, the final possible arrays can be arr1 = \[1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15\], and arr2 = \[2,6\].<br>It can be shown that it is not possible to obtain a lower maximum satisfying all conditions. <br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= divisor1, divisor2 <= 105`<br>   `1 <= uniqueCnt1, uniqueCnt2 < 109`<br>   `2 <= uniqueCnt1 + uniqueCnt2 <= 109`"""<br><br>    return (divisor1 - 1)  unique_cnt1 + (divisor2 - 1)  unique_cnt2 + 1<br>```<br>    <br>    To find the minimum possible maximum integer, we distribute numbers to both arrays while avoiding overlap between the two arrays and numbers that are divisible by the respective divisors. The maximum element in arr1 can be found by selecting uniqueCnt1 numbers not divisible by divisor1, and similarly for arr2.<br><br>In general, the formula for the minimum possible maximum integer can be determined by the following expression: <br>```<br>(divisor1 - 1)  uniqueCnt1 + (divisor2 - 1)  uniqueCnt2 + 1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1742.txt
> def maxWidthOfVerticalArea(points):<br>    """You are working in a ball factory where you have `n` balls numbered from `lowLimit` up to `highLimit` inclusive (i.e., `n == highLimit - lowLimit + 1`), and an infinite number of boxes numbered from `1` to `infinity`.<br><br>Your job at this factory is to put each ball in the box with a number equal to the sum of digits of the ball's number. For example, the ball number `321` will be put in the box number `3 + 2 + 1 = 6` and the ball number `10` will be put in the box number `1 + 0 = 1`.<br><br>Given two integers `lowLimit` and `highLimit`, return _the number of balls in the box with the most balls._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: lowLimit = 1, highLimit = 10<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>Box Number:  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 ...<br>Ball Count:  2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0  0  ...<br>Box 1 has the most number of balls with 2 balls.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: lowLimit = 5, highLimit = 15<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>Box Number:  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 ...<br>Ball Count:  1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 0  0  ...<br>Boxes 5 and 6 have the most number of balls with 2 balls in each.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: lowLimit = 19, highLimit = 28<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>Box Number:  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 ...<br>Ball Count:  0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2  0  0  ...<br>Box 10 has the most number of balls with 2 balls.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= lowLimit <= highLimit <= 105`"""<br><br>    xs = sorted([point[0] for point in points])<br>    max_width = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(xs)):<br>        max_width = max(max_width, xs[i] - xs[i - 1])<br>    return max_width


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 6, leetcode/leetcode_2064.txt
> def minimum_maximum(n, quantities):<br>    """You are given an integer `n` indicating there are `n` specialty retail stores. There are `m` product types of varying amounts, which are given as a 0-indexed integer array `quantities`, where `quantities[i]` represents the number of products of the `ith` product type.<br><br>You need to distribute all products to the retail stores following these rules:<br><br>   A store can only be given at most one product type but can be given any amount of it.<br>   After distribution, each store will have been given some number of products (possibly `0`). Let `x` represent the maximum number of products given to any store. You want `x` to be as small as possible, i.e., you want to minimize the maximum number of products that are given to any store.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible_ `x`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, quantities = \[11,6\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One optimal way is:<br>- The 11 products of type 0 are distributed to the first four stores in these amounts: 2, 3, 3, 3<br>- The 6 products of type 1 are distributed to the other two stores in these amounts: 3, 3<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 3) = 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, quantities = \[15,10,10\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: One optimal way is:<br>- The 15 products of type 0 are distributed to the first three stores in these amounts: 5, 5, 5<br>- The 10 products of type 1 are distributed to the next two stores in these amounts: 5, 5<br>- The 10 products of type 2 are distributed to the last two stores in these amounts: 5, 5<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5) = 5.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1, quantities = \[100000\]<br>Output: 100000<br>Explanation: The only optimal way is:<br>- The 100000 products of type 0 are distributed to the only store.<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(100000) = 100000.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == quantities.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= quantities[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    sum_products = sum(quantities)<br>    x = (sum_products + n - 1) // n<br>    remaining_stores = n<br>    for q in quantities:<br>        remaining_stores -= (q + x - 1) // x<br>        if remaining_stores < 0:<br>            x = (sum_products + remaining_stores) // (n + remaining_stores)<br>            remaining_stores = n<br>    return x
