# Query `70`

## Original Question

*You are given an `m x n` binary grid `grid` where `1` represents land and `0` represents water. An island is a maximal 4-directionally (horizontal or vertical) connected group of `1`'s.

The grid is said to be connected if we have exactly one island, otherwise is said disconnected.

In one day, we are allowed to change any single land cell `(1)` into a water cell `(0)`.

Return _the minimum number of days to disconnect the grid_.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,0,0,0\]\]

Output: 2
Explanation: We need at least 2 days to get a disconnected grid.
Change land grid\[1\]\[1\] and grid\[0\]\[2\] to water and get 2 disconnected island.

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[\[1,1\]\]
Output: 2
Explanation: Grid of full water is also disconnected (\[\[1,1\]\] -> \[\[0,0\]\]), 0 islands.

Constraints:

   `m == grid.length`
   `n == grid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 30`
   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2891
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1000
map_cut_25: 0.1000
map_cut_50: 0.1000
map_cut_100: 0.1000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_803.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are given an `m x n` binary `grid`, where each `1` represents a brick and `0` represents an empty space. A brick is stable if:<br><br>   It is directly connected to the top of the grid, or<br>   At least one other brick in its four adjacent cells is stable.<br><br>You are also given an array `hits`, which is a sequence of erasures we want to apply. Each time we want to erase the brick at the location `hits[i] = (rowi, coli)`. The brick on that location (if it exists) will disappear. Some other bricks may no longer be stable because of that erasure and will fall. Once a brick falls, it is immediately erased from the `grid` (i.e., it does not land on other stable bricks).<br><br>Return _an array_ `result`_, where each_ `result[i]` _is the number of bricks that will fall after the_ `ith` _erasure is applied._<br><br>Note that an erasure may refer to a location with no brick, and if it does, no bricks drop.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[1,1,1,0\]\], hits = \[\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[2\]<br>Explanation: Starting with the grid:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[1,1,1,0\]\]<br>We erase the underlined brick at (1,0), resulting in the grid:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[0,1,1,0\]\]<br>The two underlined bricks are no longer stable as they are no longer connected to the top nor adjacent to another stable brick, so they will fall. The resulting grid is:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Hence the result is \[2\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[1,1,0,0\]\], hits = \[\[1,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[0,0\]<br>Explanation: Starting with the grid:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[1,1,0,0\]\]<br>We erase the underlined brick at (1,1), resulting in the grid:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[1,0,0,0\]\]<br>All remaining bricks are still stable, so no bricks fall. The grid remains the same:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[1,0,0,0\]\]<br>Next, we erase the underlined brick at (1,0), resulting in the grid:<br>\[\[1,0,0,0\],<br> \[0,0,0,0\]\]<br>Once again, all remaining bricks are still stable, so no bricks fall.<br>Hence the result is \[0,0\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 200`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is `0` or `1`.<br>   `1 <= hits.length <= 4  104`<br>   `hits[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= xi <= m - 1`<br>   `0 <= yi <= n - 1`<br>   All `(xi, yi)` are unique."""<br><br><br>def findCheapestPrice(n, flights, src, dst, k):<br>    graph = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br>    for flight in flights:<br>        graph[flight[0]].append((flight[1], flight[2]))<br><br>    pq = [(0, src, k + 1)]<br>    while pq:<br>        price, city, stops = heapq.heappop(pq)<br><br>        if city == dst:<br>            return price<br><br>        if stops  0:<br>            for nei, prc in graph[city]:<br>                heapq.heappush(pq, (price + prc, nei, stops - 1))<br><br>    return -1

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1536.txt
> def minSwaps(grid):<br>    """Given an `n x n` binary `grid`, in one step you can choose two adjacent rows of the grid and swap them.<br><br>A grid is said to be valid if all the cells above the main diagonal are zeros.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of steps_ needed to make the grid valid, or \-1 if the grid cannot be valid.<br><br>The main diagonal of a grid is the diagonal that starts at cell `(1, 1)` and ends at cell `(n, n)`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,0,1\],\[1,1,0\],\[1,0,0\]\]<br>Output: 3<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: All rows are similar, swaps have no effect on the grid.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0\],\[1,1,0\],\[1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == grid.length` `== grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 200`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`"""<br><br>    n = len(grid)<br>    steps = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        row = -1<br>        for j in range(i, n):<br>            if grid[j][i] == 0:<br>                row = j<br>                break<br>        if row == -1:<br>            return -1<br><br>        while row  i:<br>            grid[row], grid[row - 1] = grid[row - 1], grid[row]<br>            steps += 1<br>            row -= 1<br><br>    return steps

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_980.txt
> from itertools import permutations<br>    """You are given an `m x n` integer array `grid` where `grid[i][j]` could be:<br><br>   `1` representing the starting square. There is exactly one starting square.<br>   `2` representing the ending square. There is exactly one ending square.<br>   `0` representing empty squares we can walk over.<br>   `-1` representing obstacles that we cannot walk over.<br><br>Return _the number of 4-directional walks from the starting square to the ending square, that walk over every non-obstacle square exactly once_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,2,-1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: We have the following two paths: <br>1. (0,0),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2)<br>2. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(2,2)<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,0\],\[0,0,0,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: We have the following four paths: <br>1. (0,0),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(2,3)<br>2. (0,0),(0,1),(1,1),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(1,2),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(2,3)<br>3. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(2,2),(1,2),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(2,3)<br>4. (0,0),(1,0),(2,0),(2,1),(1,1),(0,1),(0,2),(0,3),(1,3),(1,2),(2,2),(2,3)<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no path that walks over every empty square exactly once.<br>Note that the starting and ending square can be anywhere in the grid.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 20`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 20`<br>   `-1 <= grid[i][j] <= 2`<br>   There is exactly one starting cell and one ending cell."""<br><br><br>def smallestSuperstring(words):<br>    def get_shared_length(a, b):<br>        for shared_length in range(min(len(a), len(b)), 0, -1):<br>            if a[-shared_length:] == b[:shared_length]:<br>                return shared_length<br>        return 0<br><br>    def merge(a, b, shared_length):<br>        return a + b[shared_length:]<br><br>    def get_total_length(merged_words):<br>        return sum(len(word) for word in merged_words)<br><br>    best = None<br>    for perm in permutations(words):<br>        merged_words = list(perm)<br>        for i in range(len(words) - 1):<br>            shared_length = get_shared_length(merged_words[i], merged_words[i + 1])<br>            merged_words[i + 1] = merge(merged_words[i], merged_words[i + 1], shared_length)<br>        if best is None or get_total_length(merged_words) < len(best):<br>            best = "".join(merged_words)<br><br>    return best

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2088.txt
> def min_time_to_type(word: str) - int:<br>    """A farmer has a rectangular grid of land with `m` rows and `n` columns that can be divided into unit cells. Each cell is either fertile (represented by a `1`) or barren (represented by a `0`). All cells outside the grid are considered barren.<br><br>A pyramidal plot of land can be defined as a set of cells with the following criteria:<br><br>1.  The number of cells in the set has to be greater than `1` and all cells must be fertile.<br>2.  The apex of a pyramid is the topmost cell of the pyramid. The height of a pyramid is the number of rows it covers. Let `(r, c)` be the apex of the pyramid, and its height be `h`. Then, the plot comprises of cells `(i, j)` where `r <= i <= r + h - 1` and `c - (i - r) <= j <= c + (i - r)`.<br><br>An inverse pyramidal plot of land can be defined as a set of cells with similar criteria:<br><br>1.  The number of cells in the set has to be greater than `1` and all cells must be fertile.<br>2.  The apex of an inverse pyramid is the bottommost cell of the inverse pyramid. The height of an inverse pyramid is the number of rows it covers. Let `(r, c)` be the apex of the pyramid, and its height be `h`. Then, the plot comprises of cells `(i, j)` where `r - h + 1 <= i <= r` and `c - (r - i) <= j <= c + (r - i)`.<br><br>Some examples of valid and invalid pyramidal (and inverse pyramidal) plots are shown below. Black cells indicate fertile cells.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed `m x n` binary matrix `grid` representing the farmland, return _the total number of pyramidal and inverse pyramidal plots that can be found in_ `grid`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[0,1,1,0\],\[1,1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The 2 possible pyramidal plots are shown in blue and red respectively.<br>There are no inverse pyramidal plots in this grid. <br>Hence total number of pyramidal and inverse pyramidal plots is 2 + 0 = 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The pyramidal plot is shown in blue, and the inverse pyramidal plot is shown in red. <br>Hence the total number of plots is 1 + 1 = 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1,1,0\],\[1,1,1,1,1\],\[1,1,1,1,1\],\[0,1,0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 13<br>Explanation: There are 7 pyramidal plots, 3 of which are shown in the 2nd and 3rd figures.<br>There are 6 inverse pyramidal plots, 2 of which are shown in the last figure.<br>The total number of plots is 7 + 6 = 13.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    time, prev = 0, 0<br>    for c in word:<br>        pos = ord(c) - ord('a')<br>        time += min(abs(pos - prev), 26 - abs(pos - prev)) + 1<br>        prev = pos<br>    return time

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_782.txt
> def numJewelsInStones(jewels, stones):<br>    """You are given an `n x n` binary grid `board`. In each move, you can swap any two rows with each other, or any two columns with each other.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of moves to transform the board into a chessboard board_. If the task is impossible, return `-1`.<br><br>A chessboard board is a board where no `0`'s and no `1`'s are 4-directionally adjacent.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[0,1,1,0\],\[0,1,1,0\],\[1,0,0,1\],\[1,0,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: One potential sequence of moves is shown.<br>The first move swaps the first and second column.<br>The second move swaps the second and third row.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: Also note that the board with 0 in the top left corner, is also a valid chessboard.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: board = \[\[1,0\],\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: No matter what sequence of moves you make, you cannot end with a valid chessboard.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == board.length`<br>   `n == board[i].length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 30`<br>   `board[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for s in stones:<br>        if s in jewels:<br>            count += 1<br>    return count


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 9, leetcode/leetcode_2556.txt
> def canReach(grid, row, col):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed `m x n` binary matrix `grid`. You can move from a cell `(row, col)` to any of the cells `(row + 1, col)` or `(row, col + 1)` that has the value `1`. The matrix is disconnected if there is no path from `(0, 0)` to `(m - 1, n - 1)`.<br><br>You can flip the value of at most one (possibly none) cell. You cannot flip the cells `(0, 0)` and `(m - 1, n - 1)`.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to make the matrix disconnect or_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>Note that flipping a cell changes its value from `0` to `1` or from `1` to `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,0,0\],\[1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: We can change the cell shown in the diagram above. There is no path from (0, 0) to (2, 2) in the resulting grid.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: grid = \[\[1,1,1\],\[1,0,1\],\[1,1,1\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is not possible to change at most one cell such that there is not path from (0, 0) to (2, 2).<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == grid.length`<br>   `n == grid[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m, n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `grid[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`.<br>   `grid[0][0] == grid[m - 1][n - 1] == 1`"""<br><br>    if row < 0 or col < 0 or row = len(grid) or col = len(grid[0]) or grid[row][col] == 0:<br>        return False<br><br>    if row == len(grid) - 1 and col == len(grid[0]) - 1:<br>        return True<br><br>    grid[row][col] = 0<br><br>    return canReach(grid, row + 1, col) or canReach(grid, row, col + 1)<br><br>def canDisconnect(grid):<br>    reachableCount = 0<br><br>    for row in range(1, len(grid)):<br>        for col in range(1, len(grid[0])):<br>            if grid[row][col] == 1 and (canReach(grid, row - 1, col) or canReach(grid, row, col - 1)):<br>                reachableCount += 1<br>                if reachableCount  1:<br>                    return True<br><br>    return reachableCount <= 1
