# Query `71`

## Original Question

*There is a strange printer with the following two special requirements:

   On each turn, the printer will print a solid rectangular pattern of a single color on the grid. This will cover up the existing colors in the rectangle.
   Once the printer has used a color for the above operation, the same color cannot be used again.

You are given a `m x n` matrix `targetGrid`, where `targetGrid[row][col]` is the color in the position `(row, col)` of the grid.

Return `true` _if it is possible to print the matrix_ `targetGrid`_,_ _otherwise, return_ `false`.

Example 1:

Input: targetGrid = \[\[1,1,1,1\],\[1,2,2,1\],\[1,2,2,1\],\[1,1,1,1\]\]
Output: true

Example 2:

Input: targetGrid = \[\[1,1,1,1\],\[1,1,3,3\],\[1,1,3,4\],\[5,5,1,4\]\]
Output: true

Example 3:

Input: targetGrid = \[\[1,2,1\],\[2,1,2\],\[1,2,1\]\]
Output: false
Explanation: It is impossible to form targetGrid because it is not allowed to print the same color in different turns.

Constraints:

   `m == targetGrid.length`
   `n == targetGrid[i].length`
   `1 <= m, n <= 60`
   `1 <= targetGrid[row][col] <= 60`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.2500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.2641
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2641
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2641
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2641
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2641
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.1250
map_cut_10: 0.1250
map_cut_25: 0.1250
map_cut_50: 0.1250
map_cut_100: 0.1250
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1696.txt
> def isPrintable(targetGrid):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` and an integer `k`.<br><br>You are initially standing at index `0`. In one move, you can jump at most `k` steps forward without going outside the boundaries of the array. That is, you can jump from index `i` to any index in the range `[i + 1, min(n - 1, i + k)]` inclusive.<br><br>You want to reach the last index of the array (index `n - 1`). Your score is the sum of all `nums[j]` for each index `j` you visited in the array.<br><br>Return _the maximum score you can get_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,\-1,-2,4,-7,3\], k = 2<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: You can choose your jumps forming the subsequence \[1,-1,4,3\] (underlined above). The sum is 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,-5,-2,4,0,3\], k = 3<br>Output: 17<br>Explanation: You can choose your jumps forming the subsequence \[10,4,3\] (underlined above). The sum is 17.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,-5,-20,4,-1,3,-6,-3\], k = 2<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length, k <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    m, n = len(targetGrid), len(targetGrid[0])<br>    top, bottom, left, right = [m]61, [-1]61, [n]61, [-1]61<br>    vis = [[False]n for _ in range(m)]<br><br>    for i in range(m):<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            c = targetGrid[i][j]<br>            top[c] = min(top[c], i)<br>            bottom[c] = max(bottom[c], i)<br>            left[c] = min(left[c], j)<br>            right[c] = max(right[c], j)<br><br>    def dfs(x):<br>        i, j = x // n, x % n<br>        if vis[i][j]: return True<br>        c = targetGrid[i][j]<br>        if i < top[c] or i  bottom[c] or j < left[c] or j  right[c]: return False<br>        vis[i][j] = True<br>        for k in range(1, 61):<br>            if k == c: continue<br>            if i = top[k] and i <= bottom[k] and j = left[k] and j <= right[k]: return False<br>            if not dfs(((i-top[k])(right[k]-left[k]+1)) + j - left[k]): return False<br>        return True<br><br>    for color in range(1, 61):<br>        for i in range(top[color], bottom[color] + 1):<br>            for j in range(left[color], right[color] + 1):<br>                if not vis[i][j] and not dfs(i  n + j): return False<br><br>    return True

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_391.txt
> def isRectangleCover(rectangles):<br>    """Given an array `rectangles` where `rectangles[i] = [xi, yi, ai, bi]` represents an axis-aligned rectangle. The bottom-left point of the rectangle is `(xi, yi)` and the top-right point of it is `(ai, bi)`.<br><br>Return `true` _if all the rectangles together form an exact cover of a rectangular region_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: rectangles = \[\[1,1,3,3\],\[3,1,4,2\],\[3,2,4,4\],\[1,3,2,4\],\[2,3,3,4\]\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: All 5 rectangles together form an exact cover of a rectangular region.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: rectangles = \[\[1,1,2,3\],\[1,3,2,4\],\[3,1,4,2\],\[3,2,4,4\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Because there is a gap between the two rectangular regions.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: rectangles = \[\[1,1,3,3\],\[3,1,4,2\],\[1,3,2,4\],\[2,2,4,4\]\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Because two of the rectangles overlap with each other.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= rectangles.length <= 2  104`<br>   `rectangles[i].length == 4`<br>   `-105 <= xi, yi, ai, bi <= 105`"""<br><br>    area = 0<br>    points = set()<br>    lx, ly, rx, ry = float('inf'), float('inf'), float('-inf'), float('-inf')<br><br>    for rect in rectangles:<br>        lx, ly = min(lx, rect[0]), min(ly, rect[1])<br>        rx, ry = max(rx, rect[2]), max(ry, rect[3])<br><br>        area += (rect[2] - rect[0])  (rect[3] - rect[1])<br><br>        p1, p2, p3, p4 = (rect[0], rect[1]), (rect[0], rect[3]), (rect[2], rect[1]), (rect[2], rect[3])<br><br>        points ^= {p1, p2, p3, p4}<br><br>    return len(points) == 4 and area == (rx - lx)  (ry - ly) and (lx, ly) in points and \<br>           (lx, ry) in points and (rx, ly) in points and (rx, ry) in points

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1354.txt
> from sortedcontainers import SortedSet<br>    """You are given an array `target` of n integers. From a starting array `arr` consisting of `n` 1's, you may perform the following procedure :<br><br>   let `x` be the sum of all elements currently in your array.<br>   choose index `i`, such that `0 <= i < n` and set the value of `arr` at index `i` to `x`.<br>   You may repeat this procedure as many times as needed.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to construct the_ `target` _array from_ `arr`_, otherwise, return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: target = \[9,3,5\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Start with arr = \[1, 1, 1\] <br>\[1, 1, 1\], sum = 3 choose index 1<br>\[1, 3, 1\], sum = 5 choose index 2<br>\[1, 3, 5\], sum = 9 choose index 0<br>\[9, 3, 5\] Done<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: target = \[1,1,1,2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Impossible to create target array from \[1,1,1,1\].<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: target = \[8,5\]<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == target.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5  104`<br>   `1 <= target[i] <= 109`"""<br><br><br>def winners_and_losers(matches):<br>    winners, losers = SortedSet(), SortedSet()<br><br>    for winner, loser in matches:<br>        winners.add(winner)<br>        losers.add(loser)<br><br>    return [list(winners), list(losers)]

### DOC[4] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_664.txt
> def strange_printer(s: str) - int:<br>    """There is a strange printer with the following two special properties:<br><br>   The printer can only print a sequence of the same character each time.<br>   At each turn, the printer can print new characters starting from and ending at any place and will cover the original existing characters.<br><br>Given a string `s`, return _the minimum number of turns the printer needed to print it_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "aaabbb "<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Print  "aaa " first and then print  "bbb ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "aba "<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Print  "aaa " first and then print  "b " from the second place of the string, which will cover the existing character 'a'.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 100`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters."""<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    if n == 0: return 0<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        dp[i][i] = 1<br>    for len in range(1, n):<br>        for i in range(n - len):<br>            j = i + len<br>            dp[i][j] = dp[i+1][j] + 1<br>            for k in range(i + 1, j + 1):<br>                if s[i] == s[k]:<br>                    dp[i][j] = min(dp[i][j], dp[i+1][k-1] + dp[k][j])<br>    return dp[0][n-1]

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1998.txt
> from math import gcd<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums`, and you can perform the following operation any number of times on `nums`:<br><br>   Swap the positions of two elements `nums[i]` and `nums[j]` if `gcd(nums[i], nums[j])  1` where `gcd(nums[i], nums[j])` is the greatest common divisor of `nums[i]` and `nums[j]`.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to sort_ `nums` _in non-decreasing order using the above swap method, or_ `false` _otherwise._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,21,3\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: We can sort \[7,21,3\] by performing the following operations:<br>- Swap 7 and 21 because gcd(7,21) = 7. nums = \[21,7,3\]<br>- Swap 21 and 3 because gcd(21,3) = 3. nums = \[3,7,21\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,2,6,2\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is impossible to sort the array because 5 cannot be swapped with any other element.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,5,9,3,15\]<br>Output: true<br>We can sort \[10,5,9,3,15\] by performing the following operations:<br>- Swap 10 and 15 because gcd(10,15) = 5. nums = \[15,5,9,3,10\]<br>- Swap 15 and 3 because gcd(15,3) = 3. nums = \[3,5,9,15,10\]<br>- Swap 10 and 15 because gcd(10,15) = 5. nums = \[3,5,9,10,15\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 3  104`<br>   `2 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br><br>def can_be_sorted(nums):<br>    sorted_nums = sorted(nums)<br>    for i in range(len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i] != sorted_nums[i] and gcd(nums[i], sorted_nums[i]) == 1:<br>            return False<br>    return True


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 3, leetcode/leetcode_664.txt
> def strange_printer(s: str) - int:<br>    """There is a strange printer with the following two special properties:<br><br>   The printer can only print a sequence of the same character each time.<br>   At each turn, the printer can print new characters starting from and ending at any place and will cover the original existing characters.<br><br>Given a string `s`, return _the minimum number of turns the printer needed to print it_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "aaabbb "<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Print  "aaa " first and then print  "bbb ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "aba "<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Print  "aaa " first and then print  "b " from the second place of the string, which will cover the existing character 'a'.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 100`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters."""<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    if n == 0: return 0<br>    dp = [[0]  n for _ in range(n)]<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        dp[i][i] = 1<br>    for len in range(1, n):<br>        for i in range(n - len):<br>            j = i + len<br>            dp[i][j] = dp[i+1][j] + 1<br>            for k in range(i + 1, j + 1):<br>                if s[i] == s[k]:<br>                    dp[i][j] = min(dp[i][j], dp[i+1][k-1] + dp[k][j])<br>    return dp[0][n-1]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2360.txt
> def findLongestCycle(edges):<br>    """You are given a directed graph of `n` nodes numbered from `0` to `n - 1`, where each node has at most one outgoing edge.<br><br>The graph is represented with a given 0-indexed array `edges` of size `n`, indicating that there is a directed edge from node `i` to node `edges[i]`. If there is no outgoing edge from node `i`, then `edges[i] == -1`.<br><br>Return _the length of the longest cycle in the graph_. If no cycle exists, return `-1`.<br><br>A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the same node.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[3,3,4,2,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The longest cycle in the graph is the cycle: 2 - 4 - 3 - 2.<br>The length of this cycle is 3, so 3 is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[2,-1,3,1\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There are no cycles in this graph.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == edges.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-1 <= edges[i] < n`<br>   `edges[i] != i`"""<br><br>    n = len(edges)<br>    visited = [False]  n<br>    longest_cycle = -1<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if not visited[i]:<br>            length = 0<br>            node = i<br><br>            while not visited[node] and edges[node] != -1:<br>                visited[node] = True<br>                length += 1<br>                node = edges[node]<br><br>            if edges[node] == i:<br>                longest_cycle = max(longest_cycle, length)<br><br>    return longest_cycle
