# Query `72`

## Original Question

*The Leetcode file system keeps a log each time some user performs a _change folder_ operation.

The operations are described below:

   `"../ "` : Move to the parent folder of the current folder. (If you are already in the main folder, remain in the same folder).
   `"./ "` : Remain in the same folder.
   `"x/ "` : Move to the child folder named `x` (This folder is guaranteed to always exist).

You are given a list of strings `logs` where `logs[i]` is the operation performed by the user at the `ith` step.

The file system starts in the main folder, then the operations in `logs` are performed.

Return _the minimum number of operations needed to go back to the main folder after the change folder operations._

Example 1:

Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "d2/ ", "../ ", "d21/ ", "./ "\]
Output: 2
Explanation: Use this change folder operation  "../ " 2 times and go back to the main folder.

Example 2:

Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "d2/ ", "./ ", "d3/ ", "../ ", "d31/ "\]
Output: 3

Example 3:

Input: logs = \[ "d1/ ", "../ ", "../ ", "../ "\]
Output: 0

Constraints:

   `1 <= logs.length <= 103`
   `2 <= logs[i].length <= 10`
   `logs[i]` contains lowercase English letters, digits, `'.'`, and `'/'`.
   `logs[i]` follows the format described in the statement.
   Folder names consist of lowercase English letters and digits.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0036
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2129.txt
> def interchangeable_rectangles(rectangles):<br>    """You are given a string `title` consisting of one or more words separated by a single space, where each word consists of English letters. Capitalize the string by changing the capitalization of each word such that:<br><br>   If the length of the word is `1` or `2` letters, change all letters to lowercase.<br>   Otherwise, change the first letter to uppercase and the remaining letters to lowercase.<br><br>Return _the capitalized_ `title`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: title =  "capiTalIze tHe titLe "<br>Output:  "Capitalize The Title "<br>Explanation:<br>Since all the words have a length of at least 3, the first letter of each word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: title =  "First leTTeR of EACH Word "<br>Output:  "First Letter of Each Word "<br>Explanation:<br>The word  "of " has length 2, so it is all lowercase.<br>The remaining words have a length of at least 3, so the first letter of each remaining word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: title =  "i lOve leetcode "<br>Output:  "i Love Leetcode "<br>Explanation:<br>The word  "i " has length 1, so it is lowercase.<br>The remaining words have a length of at least 3, so the first letter of each remaining word is uppercase, and the remaining letters are lowercase.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= title.length <= 100`<br>   `title` consists of words separated by a single space without any leading or trailing spaces.<br>   Each word consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters and is non-empty."""<br><br>    ratio_count = {}<br>    count = 0<br><br>    for r in rectangles:<br>        ratio = r[0] / r[1]<br>        count += ratio_count.get(ratio, 0)<br>        ratio_count[ratio] = ratio_count.get(ratio, 0) + 1<br><br>    return count

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1945.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """You are given a string `s` consisting of lowercase English letters, and an integer `k`.<br><br>First, convert `s` into an integer by replacing each letter with its position in the alphabet (i.e., replace `'a'` with `1`, `'b'` with `2`, ..., `'z'` with `26`). Then, transform the integer by replacing it with the sum of its digits. Repeat the transform operation `k` times in total.<br><br>For example, if `s = "zbax "` and `k = 2`, then the resulting integer would be `8` by the following operations:<br><br>   Convert: `"zbax " ➝ "(26)(2)(1)(24) " ➝ "262124 " ➝ 262124`<br>   Transform #1: `262124 ➝ 2 + 6 + 2 + 1 + 2 + 4 ➝ 17`<br>   Transform #2: `17 ➝ 1 + 7 ➝ 8`<br><br>Return _the resulting integer after performing the operations described above_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "iiii ", k = 1<br>Output: 36<br>Explanation: The operations are as follows:<br>- Convert:  "iiii " ➝  "(9)(9)(9)(9) " ➝  "9999 " ➝ 9999<br>- Transform #1: 9999 ➝ 9 + 9 + 9 + 9 ➝ 36<br>Thus the resulting integer is 36.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "leetcode ", k = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The operations are as follows:<br>- Convert:  "leetcode " ➝  "(12)(5)(5)(20)(3)(15)(4)(5) " ➝  "12552031545 " ➝ 12552031545<br>- Transform #1: 12552031545 ➝ 1 + 2 + 5 + 5 + 2 + 0 + 3 + 1 + 5 + 4 + 5 ➝ 33<br>- Transform #2: 33 ➝ 3 + 3 ➝ 6<br>Thus the resulting integer is 6.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "zbax ", k = 2<br>Output: 8<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 100`<br>   `1 <= k <= 10`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters."""<br><br><br>def finding_users_active_minutes(logs, k):<br>    user_minutes = defaultdict(set)<br>    for log in logs:<br>        user_minutes[log[0]].add(log[1])<br>    result = [0]  k<br>    for minutes in user_minutes.values():<br>        if len(minutes) <= k:<br>            result[len(minutes) - 1] += 1<br>    return result

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_831.txt
> class Solution:<br>    """You are given a personal information string `s`, representing either an email address or a phone number. Return _the masked personal information using the below rules_.<br><br>Email address:<br><br>An email address is:<br><br>   A name consisting of uppercase and lowercase English letters, followed by<br>   The `'@'` symbol, followed by<br>   The domain consisting of uppercase and lowercase English letters with a dot `'.'` somewhere in the middle (not the first or last character).<br><br>To mask an email:<br><br>   The uppercase letters in the name and domain must be converted to lowercase letters.<br>   The middle letters of the name (i.e., all but the first and last letters) must be replaced by 5 asterisks `" "`.<br><br>Phone number:<br><br>A phone number is formatted as follows:<br><br>   The phone number contains 10-13 digits.<br>   The last 10 digits make up the local number.<br>   The remaining 0-3 digits, in the beginning, make up the country code.<br>   Separation characters from the set `{'+', '-', '(', ')', ' '}` separate the above digits in some way.<br><br>To mask a phone number:<br><br>   Remove all separation characters.<br>   The masked phone number should have the form:<br>       `"--XXXX "` if the country code has 0 digits.<br>       `"+---XXXX "` if the country code has 1 digit.<br>       `"+---XXXX "` if the country code has 2 digits.<br>       `"+---XXXX "` if the country code has 3 digits.<br>   `"XXXX "` is the last 4 digits of the local number.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "LeetCode@LeetCode.com "<br>Output:  "l\\\\\e@leetcode.com "<br>Explanation: s is an email address.<br>The name and domain are converted to lowercase, and the middle of the name is replaced by 5 asterisks.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "AB@qq.com "<br>Output:  "a\\\\\b@qq.com "<br>Explanation: s is an email address.<br>The name and domain are converted to lowercase, and the middle of the name is replaced by 5 asterisks.<br>Note that even though  "ab " is 2 characters, it still must have 5 asterisks in the middle.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "1(234)567-890 "<br>Output:  "\\\-\\\-7890 "<br>Explanation: s is a phone number.<br>There are 10 digits, so the local number is 10 digits and the country code is 0 digits.<br>Thus, the resulting masked number is  "\\\-\\\-7890 ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `s` is either a valid email or a phone number.<br>   If `s` is an email:<br>       `8 <= s.length <= 40`<br>       `s` consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters and exactly one `'@'` symbol and `'.'` symbol.<br>   If `s` is a phone number:<br>       `10 <= s.length <= 20`<br>       `s` consists of digits, spaces, and the symbols `'('`, `')'`, `'-'`, and `'+'`."""<br><br>    def largestSumOfAverages(self, nums: List[int], k: int) - float:<br>        memo = {}<br>        <br>        def max_partition_sum(start: int, k: int) - float:<br>            if k == 1:<br>                return sum(nums[start:]) / (len(nums) - start)<br>            if (start, k) in memo:<br>                return memo[start, k]<br>            <br>            ans, curr_sum = 0, 0<br>            for i in range(start, len(nums) - k + 1):<br>                curr_sum += nums[i]<br>                ans = max(ans, curr_sum / (i - start + 1) + max_partition_sum(i + 1, k - 1))<br>            <br>            memo[start, k] = ans<br>            return ans<br>        <br>        return max_partition_sum(0, k)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1417.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """You are given an alphanumeric string `s`. (Alphanumeric string is a string consisting of lowercase English letters and digits).<br><br>You have to find a permutation of the string where no letter is followed by another letter and no digit is followed by another digit. That is, no two adjacent characters have the same type.<br><br>Return _the reformatted string_ or return an empty string if it is impossible to reformat the string.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "a0b1c2 "<br>Output:  "0a1b2c "<br>Explanation: No two adjacent characters have the same type in  "0a1b2c ".  "a0b1c2 ",  "0a1b2c ",  "0c2a1b " are also valid permutations.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "leetcode "<br>Output:  " "<br>Explanation:  "leetcode " has only characters so we cannot separate them by digits.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "1229857369 "<br>Output:  " "<br>Explanation:  "1229857369 " has only digits so we cannot separate them by characters.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 500`<br>   `s` consists of only lowercase English letters and/or digits."""<br><br><br>def reformat(s: str) - str:<br>    letters, digits = deque(), deque()<br><br>    for c in s:<br>        if c.isalpha():<br>            letters.append(c)<br>        else:<br>            digits.append(c)<br><br>    if abs(len(letters) - len(digits))  1:<br>        return ""<br><br>    result = []<br>    use_letter = len(letters)  len(digits)<br><br>    while letters or digits:<br>        if use_letter:<br>            result.append(letters.popleft())<br>        else:<br>            result.append(digits.popleft())<br>        use_letter = not use_letter<br><br>    return ''.join(result)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2060.txt
> def merge_trees(trees):<br>    """An original string, consisting of lowercase English letters, can be encoded by the following steps:<br><br>   Arbitrarily split it into a sequence of some number of non-empty substrings.<br>   Arbitrarily choose some elements (possibly none) of the sequence, and replace each with its length (as a numeric string).<br>   Concatenate the sequence as the encoded string.<br><br>For example, one way to encode an original string `"abcdefghijklmnop "` might be:<br><br>   Split it as a sequence: `[ "ab ", "cdefghijklmn ", "o ", "p "]`.<br>   Choose the second and third elements to be replaced by their lengths, respectively. The sequence becomes `[ "ab ", "12 ", "1 ", "p "]`.<br>   Concatenate the elements of the sequence to get the encoded string: `"ab121p "`.<br><br>Given two encoded strings `s1` and `s2`, consisting of lowercase English letters and digits `1-9` (inclusive), return `true` _if there exists an original string that could be encoded as both_ `s1` _and_ `s2`_. Otherwise, return_ `false`.<br><br>Note: The test cases are generated such that the number of consecutive digits in `s1` and `s2` does not exceed `3`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s1 =  "internationalization ", s2 =  "i18n "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: It is possible that  "internationalization " was the original string.<br>-  "internationalization " <br>  - Split:       \[ "internationalization "\]<br>  - Do not replace any element<br>  - Concatenate:   "internationalization ", which is s1.<br>-  "internationalization "<br>  - Split:       \[ "i ",  "nternationalizatio ",  "n "\]<br>  - Replace:     \[ "i ",  "18 ",                  "n "\]<br>  - Concatenate:   "i18n ", which is s2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s1 =  "l123e ", s2 =  "44 "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: It is possible that  "leetcode " was the original string.<br>-  "leetcode " <br>  - Split:      \[ "l ",  "e ",  "et ",  "cod ",  "e "\]<br>  - Replace:    \[ "l ",  "1 ",  "2 ",   "3 ",    "e "\]<br>  - Concatenate:  "l123e ", which is s1.<br>-  "leetcode " <br>  - Split:      \[ "leet ",  "code "\]<br>  - Replace:    \[ "4 ",     "4 "\]<br>  - Concatenate:  "44 ", which is s2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s1 =  "a5b ", s2 =  "c5b "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: It is impossible.<br>- The original string encoded as s1 must start with the letter 'a'.<br>- The original string encoded as s2 must start with the letter 'c'.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s1.length, s2.length <= 40`<br>   `s1` and `s2` consist of digits `1-9` (inclusive), and lowercase English letters only.<br>   The number of consecutive digits in `s1` and `s2` does not exceed `3`."""<br><br>    while len(trees)  1:<br>        tree1 = trees.pop()<br>        tree2 = trees.pop()<br><br>        if tree1.val < tree2.val:<br>            tree1.right = tree2<br>            trees.append(tree1)<br>        else:<br>            tree2.right = tree1<br>            trees.append(tree2)<br>    return None if not trees else trees[0]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_682.txt
> def calPoints(ops):<br>    """You are keeping the scores for a baseball game with strange rules. At the beginning of the game, you start with an empty record.<br><br>You are given a list of strings `operations`, where `operations[i]` is the `ith` operation you must apply to the record and is one of the following:<br><br>   An integer `x`.<br>       Record a new score of `x`.<br>   `'+'`.<br>       Record a new score that is the sum of the previous two scores.<br>   `'D'`.<br>       Record a new score that is the double of the previous score.<br>   `'C'`.<br>       Invalidate the previous score, removing it from the record.<br><br>Return _the sum of all the scores on the record after applying all the operations_.<br><br>The test cases are generated such that the answer and all intermediate calculations fit in a 32-bit integer and that all operations are valid.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: ops = \[ "5 ", "2 ", "C ", "D ", "+ "\]<br>Output: 30<br>Explanation:<br> "5 " - Add 5 to the record, record is now \[5\].<br> "2 " - Add 2 to the record, record is now \[5, 2\].<br> "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[5\].<br> "D " - Add 2 \ 5 = 10 to the record, record is now \[5, 10\].<br> "+ " - Add 5 + 10 = 15 to the record, record is now \[5, 10, 15\].<br>The total sum is 5 + 10 + 15 = 30.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: ops = \[ "5 ", "-2 ", "4 ", "C ", "D ", "9 ", "+ ", "+ "\]<br>Output: 27<br>Explanation:<br> "5 " - Add 5 to the record, record is now \[5\].<br> "-2 " - Add -2 to the record, record is now \[5, -2\].<br> "4 " - Add 4 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, 4\].<br> "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[5, -2\].<br> "D " - Add 2 \ -2 = -4 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4\].<br> "9 " - Add 9 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9\].<br> "+ " - Add -4 + 9 = 5 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9, 5\].<br> "+ " - Add 9 + 5 = 14 to the record, record is now \[5, -2, -4, 9, 5, 14\].<br>The total sum is 5 + -2 + -4 + 9 + 5 + 14 = 27.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: ops = \[ "1 ", "C "\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br> "1 " - Add 1 to the record, record is now \[1\].<br> "C " - Invalidate and remove the previous score, record is now \[\].<br>Since the record is empty, the total sum is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= operations.length <= 1000`<br>   `operations[i]` is `"C "`, `"D "`, `"+ "`, or a string representing an integer in the range `[-3  104, 3  104]`.<br>   For operation `"+ "`, there will always be at least two previous scores on the record.<br>   For operations `"C "` and `"D "`, there will always be at least one previous score on the record."""<br><br>    record = []<br>    for op in ops:<br>        if op == '+':<br>            record.append(record[-1] + record[-2])<br>        elif op == 'D':<br>            record.append(record[-1]  2)<br>        elif op == 'C':<br>            record.pop()<br>        else:<br>            record.append(int(op))<br>    return sum(record)

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_844.txt
> def backspaceCompare(s: str, t: str) - bool:<br>    """Given two strings `s` and `t`, return `true` _if they are equal when both are typed into empty text editors_. `'#'` means a backspace character.<br><br>Note that after backspacing an empty text, the text will continue empty.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "ab#c ", t =  "ad#c "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Both s and t become  "ac ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "ab## ", t =  "c#d# "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: Both s and t become  " ".<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: s =  "a#c ", t =  "b "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: s becomes  "c " while t becomes  "b ".<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length, t.length <= 200`<br>   `s` and `t` only contain lowercase letters and `'#'` characters.<br><br>Follow up: Can you solve it in `O(n)` time and `O(1)` space?"""<br><br>    i, j = len(s) - 1, len(t) - 1<br>    while True:<br>        back = 0<br>        while i = 0 and (back  0 or s[i] == '#'):<br>            back = back + 1 if s[i] == '#' else back - 1<br>            i -= 1<br>        back = 0<br>        while j = 0 and (back  0 or t[j] == '#'):<br>            back = back + 1 if t[j] == '#' else back - 1<br>            j -= 1<br>        if i = 0 and j = 0 and s[i] == t[j]:<br>            i, j = i -1, j - 1<br>        else:<br>            return i == -1 and j == -1
