# Query `78`

## Original Question

*You are given an integer array `jobs`, where `jobs[i]` is the amount of time it takes to complete the `ith` job.

There are `k` workers that you can assign jobs to. Each job should be assigned to exactly one worker. The working time of a worker is the sum of the time it takes to complete all jobs assigned to them. Your goal is to devise an optimal assignment such that the maximum working time of any worker is minimized.

_Return the minimum possible maximum working time of any assignment._

Example 1:

Input: jobs = \[3,2,3\], k = 3
Output: 3
Explanation: By assigning each person one job, the maximum time is 3.

Example 2:

Input: jobs = \[1,2,4,7,8\], k = 2
Output: 11
Explanation: Assign the jobs the following way:
Worker 1: 1, 2, 8 (working time = 1 + 2 + 8 = 11)
Worker 2: 4, 7 (working time = 4 + 7 = 11)
The maximum working time is 11.

Constraints:

   `1 <= k <= jobs.length <= 12`
   `1 <= jobs[i] <= 107`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_25: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2891
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2891
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.1000
map_cut_25: 0.1000
map_cut_50: 0.1000
map_cut_100: 0.1000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2064.txt
> def minimum_maximum(n, quantities):<br>    """You are given an integer `n` indicating there are `n` specialty retail stores. There are `m` product types of varying amounts, which are given as a 0-indexed integer array `quantities`, where `quantities[i]` represents the number of products of the `ith` product type.<br><br>You need to distribute all products to the retail stores following these rules:<br><br>   A store can only be given at most one product type but can be given any amount of it.<br>   After distribution, each store will have been given some number of products (possibly `0`). Let `x` represent the maximum number of products given to any store. You want `x` to be as small as possible, i.e., you want to minimize the maximum number of products that are given to any store.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible_ `x`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, quantities = \[11,6\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: One optimal way is:<br>- The 11 products of type 0 are distributed to the first four stores in these amounts: 2, 3, 3, 3<br>- The 6 products of type 1 are distributed to the other two stores in these amounts: 3, 3<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 3) = 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, quantities = \[15,10,10\]<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: One optimal way is:<br>- The 15 products of type 0 are distributed to the first three stores in these amounts: 5, 5, 5<br>- The 10 products of type 1 are distributed to the next two stores in these amounts: 5, 5<br>- The 10 products of type 2 are distributed to the last two stores in these amounts: 5, 5<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5) = 5.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 1, quantities = \[100000\]<br>Output: 100000<br>Explanation: The only optimal way is:<br>- The 100000 products of type 0 are distributed to the only store.<br>The maximum number of products given to any store is max(100000) = 100000.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == quantities.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= quantities[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    sum_products = sum(quantities)<br>    x = (sum_products + n - 1) // n<br>    remaining_stores = n<br>    for q in quantities:<br>        remaining_stores -= (q + x - 1) // x<br>        if remaining_stores < 0:<br>            x = (sum_products + remaining_stores) // (n + remaining_stores)<br>            remaining_stores = n<br>    return x

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_826.txt
> def maxProfitAssignment(difficulty, profit, worker):<br>    """You have `n` jobs and `m` workers. You are given three arrays: `difficulty`, `profit`, and `worker` where:<br><br>   `difficulty[i]` and `profit[i]` are the difficulty and the profit of the `ith` job, and<br>   `worker[j]` is the ability of `jth` worker (i.e., the `jth` worker can only complete a job with difficulty at most `worker[j]`).<br><br>Every worker can be assigned at most one job, but one job can be completed multiple times.<br><br>   For example, if three workers attempt the same job that pays `$1`, then the total profit will be `$3`. If a worker cannot complete any job, their profit is `$0`.<br><br>Return the maximum profit we can achieve after assigning the workers to the jobs.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: difficulty = \[2,4,6,8,10\], profit = \[10,20,30,40,50\], worker = \[4,5,6,7\]<br>Output: 100<br>Explanation: Workers are assigned jobs of difficulty \[4,4,6,6\] and they get a profit of \[20,20,30,30\] separately.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: difficulty = \[85,47,57\], profit = \[24,66,99\], worker = \[40,25,25\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == difficulty.length`<br>   `n == profit.length`<br>   `m == worker.length`<br>   `1 <= n, m <= 104`<br>   `1 <= difficulty[i], profit[i], worker[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    n = len(difficulty)<br>    jobs = sorted(zip(difficulty, profit))<br>    worker.sort()<br><br>    max_profit = 0<br>    total_profit = 0<br>    job_idx = 0<br><br>    for w in worker:<br>        while job_idx < n and w = jobs[job_idx][0]:<br>            max_profit = max(max_profit, jobs[job_idx][1])<br>            job_idx += 1<br>        total_profit += max_profit<br><br>    return total_profit

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1335.txt
> def max_candies(candies, k):<br>    """You want to schedule a list of jobs in `d` days. Jobs are dependent (i.e To work on the `ith` job, you have to finish all the jobs `j` where `0 <= j < i`).<br><br>You have to finish at least one task every day. The difficulty of a job schedule is the sum of difficulties of each day of the `d` days. The difficulty of a day is the maximum difficulty of a job done on that day.<br><br>You are given an integer array `jobDifficulty` and an integer `d`. The difficulty of the `ith` job is `jobDifficulty[i]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum difficulty of a job schedule_. If you cannot find a schedule for the jobs return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[6,5,4,3,2,1\], d = 2<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: First day you can finish the first 5 jobs, total difficulty = 6.<br>Second day you can finish the last job, total difficulty = 1.<br>The difficulty of the schedule = 6 + 1 = 7 <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[9,9,9\], d = 4<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: If you finish a job per day you will still have a free day. you cannot find a schedule for the given jobs.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[1,1,1\], d = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The schedule is one job per day. total difficulty will be 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= jobDifficulty.length <= 300`<br>   `0 <= jobDifficulty[i] <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= d <= 10`"""<br><br>    left, right = 1, max(candies)<br>    <br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        count = sum(candy // mid for candy in candies)<br>        if count = k:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br>    return right

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1889.txt
> def check_powers_of_three(n: int) - bool:<br>    """You have `n` packages that you are trying to place in boxes, one package in each box. There are `m` suppliers that each produce boxes of different sizes (with infinite supply). A package can be placed in a box if the size of the package is less than or equal to the size of the box.<br><br>The package sizes are given as an integer array `packages`, where `packages[i]` is the size of the `ith` package. The suppliers are given as a 2D integer array `boxes`, where `boxes[j]` is an array of box sizes that the `jth` supplier produces.<br><br>You want to choose a single supplier and use boxes from them such that the total wasted space is minimized. For each package in a box, we define the space wasted to be `size of the box - size of the package`. The total wasted space is the sum of the space wasted in all the boxes.<br><br>   For example, if you have to fit packages with sizes `[2,3,5]` and the supplier offers boxes of sizes `[4,8]`, you can fit the packages of size-`2` and size-`3` into two boxes of size-`4` and the package with size-`5` into a box of size-`8`. This would result in a waste of `(4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6`.<br><br>Return _the minimum total wasted space by choosing the box supplier optimally, or_ `-1` _if it is impossible to fit all the packages inside boxes._ Since the answer may be large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[4,8\],\[2,8\]\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the first supplier, using two size-4 boxes and one size-8 box.<br>The total waste is (4-2) + (4-3) + (8-5) = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: packages = \[2,3,5\], boxes = \[\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There is no box that the package of size 5 can fit in.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: packages = \[3,5,8,10,11,12\], boxes = \[\[12\],\[11,9\],\[10,5,14\]\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: It is optimal to choose the third supplier, using two size-5 boxes, two size-10 boxes, and two size-14 boxes.<br>The total waste is (5-3) + (5-5) + (10-8) + (10-10) + (14-11) + (14-12) = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == packages.length`<br>   `m == boxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= m <= 105`<br>   `1 <= packages[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j].length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= boxes[j][k] <= 105`<br>   `sum(boxes[j].length) <= 105`<br>   The elements in `boxes[j]` are distinct."""<br><br>    while n  0:<br>        if n % 3 == 2:<br>            return False<br>        n //= 3<br>    return True

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2462.txt
> def hireWorkers(costs, k, candidates):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `costs` where `costs[i]` is the cost of hiring the `ith` worker.<br><br>You are also given two integers `k` and `candidates`. We want to hire exactly `k` workers according to the following rules:<br><br>   You will run `k` sessions and hire exactly one worker in each session.<br>   In each hiring session, choose the worker with the lowest cost from either the first `candidates` workers or the last `candidates` workers. Break the tie by the smallest index.<br>       For example, if `costs = [3,2,7,7,1,2]` and `candidates = 2`, then in the first hiring session, we will choose the `4th` worker because they have the lowest cost `[3,2,7,7,1,2]`.<br>       In the second hiring session, we will choose `1st` worker because they have the same lowest cost as `4th` worker but they have the smallest index `[3,2,7,7,2]`. Please note that the indexing may be changed in the process.<br>   If there are fewer than candidates workers remaining, choose the worker with the lowest cost among them. Break the tie by the smallest index.<br>   A worker can only be chosen once.<br><br>Return _the total cost to hire exactly_ `k` _workers._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: costs = \[17,12,10,2,7,2,11,20,8\], k = 3, candidates = 4<br>Output: 11<br>Explanation: We hire 3 workers in total. The total cost is initially 0.<br>- In the first hiring round we choose the worker from \[17,12,10,2,7,2,11,20,8\]. The lowest cost is 2, and we break the tie by the smallest index, which is 3. The total cost = 0 + 2 = 2.<br>- In the second hiring round we choose the worker from \[17,12,10,7,2,11,20,8\]. The lowest cost is 2 (index 4). The total cost = 2 + 2 = 4.<br>- In the third hiring round we choose the worker from \[17,12,10,7,11,20,8\]. The lowest cost is 7 (index 3). The total cost = 4 + 7 = 11. Notice that the worker with index 3 was common in the first and last four workers.<br>The total hiring cost is 11.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: costs = \[1,2,4,1\], k = 3, candidates = 3<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: We hire 3 workers in total. The total cost is initially 0.<br>- In the first hiring round we choose the worker from \[1,2,4,1\]. The lowest cost is 1, and we break the tie by the smallest index, which is 0. The total cost = 0 + 1 = 1. Notice that workers with index 1 and 2 are common in the first and last 3 workers.<br>- In the second hiring round we choose the worker from \[2,4,1\]. The lowest cost is 1 (index 2). The total cost = 1 + 1 = 2.<br>- In the third hiring round there are less than three candidates. We choose the worker from the remaining workers \[2,4\]. The lowest cost is 2 (index 0). The total cost = 2 + 2 = 4.<br>The total hiring cost is 4.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= costs.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= costs[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= k, candidates <= costs.length`"""<br><br>    n = len(costs)<br>    workers = sorted([(cost, i) for i, cost in enumerate(costs)])<br><br>    cost = 0<br>    for i in range(k):<br>        if min(workers[i][1], n - workers[i][1] - 1) < candidates:<br>            cost += workers[i][0]<br><br>    return cost


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 9, leetcode/leetcode_1986.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """There are `n` tasks assigned to you. The task times are represented as an integer array `tasks` of length `n`, where the `ith` task takes `tasks[i]` hours to finish. A work session is when you work for at most `sessionTime` consecutive hours and then take a break.<br><br>You should finish the given tasks in a way that satisfies the following conditions:<br><br>   If you start a task in a work session, you must complete it in the same work session.<br>   You can start a new task immediately after finishing the previous one.<br>   You may complete the tasks in any order.<br><br>Given `tasks` and `sessionTime`, return _the minimum number of work sessions needed to finish all the tasks following the conditions above._<br><br>The tests are generated such that `sessionTime` is greater than or equal to the maximum element in `tasks[i]`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[1,2,3\], sessionTime = 3<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: You can finish the tasks in two work sessions.<br>- First work session: finish the first and the second tasks in 1 + 2 = 3 hours.<br>- Second work session: finish the third task in 3 hours.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[3,1,3,1,1\], sessionTime = 8<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: You can finish the tasks in two work sessions.<br>- First work session: finish all the tasks except the last one in 3 + 1 + 3 + 1 = 8 hours.<br>- Second work session: finish the last task in 1 hour.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[1,2,3,4,5\], sessionTime = 15<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You can finish all the tasks in one work session.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == tasks.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 14`<br>   `1 <= tasks[i] <= 10`<br>   `max(tasks[i]) <= sessionTime <= 15`"""<br><br><br><br>def largestPathValue(colors, edges):<br>    def dfs(node):<br>        if not cache[node][ord(colors[node]) - ord('a')]:<br>            cache[node][ord(colors[node]) - ord('a')] = 1<br>            for neighbor in graph[node]:<br>                cache[node][ord(colors[node]) - ord('a')] = max(cache[node][ord(colors[node]) - ord('a')],<br>                                                               1 + dfs(neighbor))<br>        return cache[node][ord(colors[node]) - ord('a')]<br><br>    n = len(colors)<br>    graph = [set() for _ in range(n)]<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        graph[a].add(b)<br><br>    cache = [[0]  26 for _ in range(n)]<br>    in_degree = [0]  n<br>    for a, b in edges:<br>        in_degree[b] += 1<br>    res = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if in_degree[i] == 0:<br>            res = max(res, dfs(i))<br>    return res
