# Query `79`

## Original Question

*A game is played by a cat and a mouse named Cat and Mouse.

The environment is represented by a `grid` of size `rows x cols`, where each element is a wall, floor, player (Cat, Mouse), or food.

   Players are represented by the characters `'C'`(Cat)`,'M'`(Mouse).
   Floors are represented by the character `'.'` and can be walked on.
   Walls are represented by the character `'#'` and cannot be walked on.
   Food is represented by the character `'F'` and can be walked on.
   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.

Mouse and Cat play according to the following rules:

   Mouse moves first, then they take turns to move.
   During each turn, Cat and Mouse can jump in one of the four directions (left, right, up, down). They cannot jump over the wall nor outside of the `grid`.
   `catJump, mouseJump` are the maximum lengths Cat and Mouse can jump at a time, respectively. Cat and Mouse can jump less than the maximum length.
   Staying in the same position is allowed.
   Mouse can jump over Cat.

The game can end in 4 ways:

   If Cat occupies the same position as Mouse, Cat wins.
   If Cat reaches the food first, Cat wins.
   If Mouse reaches the food first, Mouse wins.
   If Mouse cannot get to the food within 1000 turns, Cat wins.

Given a `rows x cols` matrix `grid` and two integers `catJump` and `mouseJump`, return `true` _if Mouse can win the game if both Cat and Mouse play optimally, otherwise return_ `false`.

Example 1:

Input: grid = \[ "####F ", "#C... ", "M.... "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 2
Output: true
Explanation: Cat cannot catch Mouse on its turn nor can it get the food before Mouse.

Example 2:

Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 4
Output: true

Example 3:

Input: grid = \[ "M.C...F "\], catJump = 1, mouseJump = 3
Output: false

Constraints:

   `rows == grid.length`
   `cols = grid[i].length`
   `1 <= rows, cols <= 8`
   `grid[i][j]` consist only of characters `'C'`, `'M'`, `'F'`, `'.'`, and `'#'`.
   There is only one of each character `'C'`, `'M'`, and `'F'` in `grid`.
   `1 <= catJump, mouseJump <= 8`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.2000
P_25: 0.0800
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.5000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.6131
ndcg_cut_10: 0.7904
ndcg_cut_25: 0.7904
ndcg_cut_50: 0.7904
ndcg_cut_100: 0.7904
map_cut_1: 0.5000
map_cut_5: 0.5000
map_cut_10: 0.6000
map_cut_25: 0.6000
map_cut_50: 0.6000
map_cut_100: 0.6000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_913.txt
> import random<br>    """A game on an undirected graph is played by two players, Mouse and Cat, who alternate turns.<br><br>The graph is given as follows: `graph[a]` is a list of all nodes `b` such that `ab` is an edge of the graph.<br><br>The mouse starts at node `1` and goes first, the cat starts at node `2` and goes second, and there is a hole at node `0`.<br><br>During each player's turn, they must travel along one edge of the graph that meets where they are. For example, if the Mouse is at node 1, it must travel to any node in `graph[1]`.<br><br>Additionally, it is not allowed for the Cat to travel to the Hole (node 0.)<br><br>Then, the game can end in three ways:<br><br>   If ever the Cat occupies the same node as the Mouse, the Cat wins.<br>   If ever the Mouse reaches the Hole, the Mouse wins.<br>   If ever a position is repeated (i.e., the players are in the same position as a previous turn, and it is the same player's turn to move), the game is a draw.<br><br>Given a `graph`, and assuming both players play optimally, return<br><br>   `1` if the mouse wins the game,<br>   `2` if the cat wins the game, or<br>   `0` if the game is a draw.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[2,5\],\[3\],\[0,4,5\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,3\],\[0,2,3\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,3\],\[0\],\[3\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= graph.length <= 50`<br>   `1 <= graph[i].length < graph.length`<br>   `0 <= graph[i][j] < graph.length`<br>   `graph[i][j] != i`<br>   `graph[i]` is unique.<br>   The mouse and the cat can always move."""<br><br><br>class Solution:<br>    def __init__(self, m, n):<br>        self.grid = [[0]  n for _ in range(m)]<br>        self.zero_count = m  n<br><br>    def pick(self):<br>        index = random.randrange(self.zero_count)<br><br>        for i, row in enumerate(self.grid):<br>            for j, cell in enumerate(row):<br>                if cell == 0:<br>                    if index == 0:<br>                        self.grid[i][j] = 1<br>                        self.zero_count -= 1<br>                        return (i, j)<br>                    index -= 1<br>        return (-1, -1)  # Should not happen

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1727.txt
> def canMouseWin(grid: List[List[str]], catJump: int, mouseJump: int) - bool:<br>    """You are given a binary matrix `matrix` of size `m x n`, and you are allowed to rearrange the columns of the `matrix` in any order.<br><br>Return _the area of the largest submatrix within_ `matrix` _where every element of the submatrix is_ `1` _after reordering the columns optimally._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[0,0,1\],\[1,1,1\],\[1,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: You can rearrange the columns as shown above.<br>The largest submatrix of 1s, in bold, has an area of 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1,0,1,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: You can rearrange the columns as shown above.<br>The largest submatrix of 1s, in bold, has an area of 3.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: matrix = \[\[1,1,0\],\[1,0,1\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Notice that you must rearrange entire columns, and there is no way to make a submatrix of 1s larger than an area of 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `m == matrix.length`<br>   `n == matrix[i].length`<br>   `1 <= m  n <= 105`<br>   `matrix[i][j]` is either `0` or `1`."""<br><br>    rows, cols = len(grid), len(grid[0])<br>    cat_r = cat_c = mouse_r = mouse_c = 0<br><br>    for r in range(rows):<br>        for c in range(cols):<br>            if grid[r][c] == 'C':<br>                cat_r, cat_c = r, c<br>            elif grid[r][c] == 'M':<br>                mouse_r, mouse_c = r, c<br><br>    dirs = [-1, 0, 1, 0, -1]<br><br>    def dfs(r_m, c_m, r_c, c_c, cnt, dst_m_c):<br>        if cnt = 100:<br>            return False<br>        if r_m < 0 or r_m = rows or c_m < 0 or c_m = cols:<br>            return False<br>        if r_c < 0 or r_c = rows or c_c < 0 or c_c = cols:<br>            return True<br>        if grid[r_m][c_m] == 'F' or cnt != dst_m_c:<br>            return True<br>        elif grid[r_m][c_m] == '#' or cnt + 1 == dst_m_c:<br>            return False<br><br>        res = False<br>        for i in range(4):<br>            jump = catJump if dst_m_c == cnt else mouseJump<br>            res |= not dfs(r_m + jump  dirs[i], c_m + jump  dirs[i + 1], r_c + dirs[i]  dirs[(i + 2) % 4], c_c + dirs[i+1]  dirs[(i + 3) % 4], cnt + 1, dst_m_c)<br>            if jump == 1:<br>                break<br><br>        return res<br><br>    return dfs(mouse_r, mouse_c, cat_r, cat_c, 0, abs(cat_r - mouse_r) + abs(cat_c - mouse_c))

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2038.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """There are `n` pieces arranged in a line, and each piece is colored either by `'A'` or by `'B'`. You are given a string `colors` of length `n` where `colors[i]` is the color of the `ith` piece.<br><br>Alice and Bob are playing a game where they take alternating turns removing pieces from the line. In this game, Alice moves first.<br><br>   Alice is only allowed to remove a piece colored `'A'` if both its neighbors are also colored `'A'`. She is not allowed to remove pieces that are colored `'B'`.<br>   Bob is only allowed to remove a piece colored `'B'` if both its neighbors are also colored `'B'`. He is not allowed to remove pieces that are colored `'A'`.<br>   Alice and Bob cannot remove pieces from the edge of the line.<br>   If a player cannot make a move on their turn, that player loses and the other player wins.<br><br>Assuming Alice and Bob play optimally, return `true` _if Alice wins, or return_ `false` _if Bob wins_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: colors =  "AAABABB "<br>Output: true<br>Explanation:<br>AAABABB - AABABB<br>Alice moves first.<br>She removes the second 'A' from the left since that is the only 'A' whose neighbors are both 'A'.<br><br>Now it's Bob's turn.<br>Bob cannot make a move on his turn since there are no 'B's whose neighbors are both 'B'.<br>Thus, Alice wins, so return true.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: colors =  "AA "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>Alice has her turn first.<br>There are only two 'A's and both are on the edge of the line, so she cannot move on her turn.<br>Thus, Bob wins, so return false.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: colors =  "ABBBBBBBAAA "<br>Output: false<br>Explanation:<br>ABBBBBBBAAA - ABBBBBBBAA<br>Alice moves first.<br>Her only option is to remove the second to last 'A' from the right.<br><br>ABBBBBBBAA - ABBBBBBAA<br>Next is Bob's turn.<br>He has many options for which 'B' piece to remove. He can pick any.<br><br>On Alice's second turn, she has no more pieces that she can remove.<br>Thus, Bob wins, so return false.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= colors.length <= 105`<br>   `colors` consists of only the letters `'A'` and `'B'`"""<br><br><br>def nearest_exit(maze, entrance):<br>    m, n = len(maze), len(maze[0])<br>    directions = [[0, 1], [1, 0], [0, -1], [-1, 0]]<br>    q = deque()<br>    maze[entrance[0]][entrance[1]] = '+'<br>    q.append((entrance[0], entrance[1]))<br>    steps = 0<br><br>    while q:<br>        size = len(q)<br>        for _ in range(size):<br>            x, y = q.popleft()<br>            if (x == 0 or x == m - 1 or y == 0 or y == n - 1) and (x != entrance[0] or y != entrance[1]):<br>                return steps<br><br>            for dir in directions:<br>                xx, yy = x + dir[0], y + dir[1]<br>                if 0 <= xx < m and 0 <= yy < n and maze[xx][yy] == '.':<br>                    maze[xx][yy] = '+'<br>                    q.append((xx, yy))<br>        steps += 1<br><br>    return -1

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1275.txt
> def validateBinaryTreeNodes(n, leftChild, rightChild):<br>    """Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.<br><br>You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "A "<br>Explanation: A wins, they always play first.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output:  "B "<br>Explanation: B wins.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "Draw "<br>Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`<br>   `moves[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`<br>   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.<br>   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe."""<br><br>    parent = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if leftChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[leftChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[leftChild[i]] = i<br>        if rightChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[rightChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[rightChild[i]] = i<br>    <br>    root = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if parent[i] == -1:<br>            if root != -1:<br>                return False<br>            root = i<br><br>    return root != -1

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_794.txt
> import heapq<br>    """Given a Tic-Tac-Toe board as a string array `board`, return `true` if and only if it is possible to reach this board position during the course of a valid tic-tac-toe game.<br><br>The board is a `3 x 3` array that consists of characters `' '`, `'X'`, and `'O'`. The `' '` character represents an empty square.<br><br>Here are the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player always places `'X'` characters, while the second player always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: board = \[ "O   ", "    ", "    "\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The first player always plays  "X ".<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: board = \[ "XOX ", " X  ", "    "\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: Players take turns making moves.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: board = \[ "XOX ", "O O ", "XOX "\]<br>Output: true<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `board.length == 3`<br>   `board[i].length == 3`<br>   `board[i][j]` is either `'X'`, `'O'`, or `' '`."""<br><br><br>def swim(n, grid):<br>    pq = [(grid[0][0], 0, 0)]<br>    visited = [[False]  n for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    dr = [-1, 0, 1, 0]<br>    dc = [0, 1, 0, -1]<br><br>    while pq:<br>        curT, curR, curC = heapq.heappop(pq)<br><br>        if curR == n - 1 and curC == n - 1:<br>            return curT<br><br>        for d in range(4):<br>            newRow, newCol = curR + dr[d], curC + dc[d]<br>            if 0 <= newRow < n and 0 <= newCol < n and not visited[newRow][newCol]:<br>                visited[newRow][newCol] = True<br>                heapq.heappush(pq, (max(curT, grid[newRow][newCol]), newRow, newCol))<br><br>    return -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 9, leetcode/leetcode_789.txt
> import heapq<br>    """You are playing a simplified PAC-MAN game on an infinite 2-D grid. You start at the point `[0, 0]`, and you are given a destination point `target = [xtarget, ytarget]` that you are trying to get to. There are several ghosts on the map with their starting positions given as a 2D array `ghosts`, where `ghosts[i] = [xi, yi]` represents the starting position of the `ith` ghost. All inputs are integral coordinates.<br><br>Each turn, you and all the ghosts may independently choose to either move 1 unit in any of the four cardinal directions: north, east, south, or west, or stay still. All actions happen simultaneously.<br><br>You escape if and only if you can reach the target before any ghost reaches you. If you reach any square (including the target) at the same time as a ghost, it does not count as an escape.<br><br>Return `true` _if it is possible to escape regardless of how the ghosts move, otherwise return_ `false`_._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: ghosts = \[\[1,0\],\[0,3\]\], target = \[0,1\]<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: You can reach the destination (0, 1) after 1 turn, while the ghosts located at (1, 0) and (0, 3) cannot catch up with you.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: ghosts = \[\[1,0\]\], target = \[2,0\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: You need to reach the destination (2, 0), but the ghost at (1, 0) lies between you and the destination.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: ghosts = \[\[2,0\]\], target = \[1,0\]<br>Output: false<br>Explanation: The ghost can reach the target at the same time as you.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= ghosts.length <= 100`<br>   `ghosts[i].length == 2`<br>   `-104 <= xi, yi <= 104`<br>   There can be multiple ghosts in the same location.<br>   `target.length == 2`<br>   `-104 <= xtarget, ytarget <= 104`"""<br><br><br>class KthLargest:<br><br>    def __init__(self, k, nums):<br>        self.heap = []<br>        self.k = k<br>        for num in nums:<br>            self.add(num)<br><br>    def add(self, val):<br>        heapq.heappush(self.heap, val)<br>        if len(self.heap)  self.k:<br>            heapq.heappop(self.heap)<br>        return self.heap[0]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_913.txt
> import random<br>    """A game on an undirected graph is played by two players, Mouse and Cat, who alternate turns.<br><br>The graph is given as follows: `graph[a]` is a list of all nodes `b` such that `ab` is an edge of the graph.<br><br>The mouse starts at node `1` and goes first, the cat starts at node `2` and goes second, and there is a hole at node `0`.<br><br>During each player's turn, they must travel along one edge of the graph that meets where they are. For example, if the Mouse is at node 1, it must travel to any node in `graph[1]`.<br><br>Additionally, it is not allowed for the Cat to travel to the Hole (node 0.)<br><br>Then, the game can end in three ways:<br><br>   If ever the Cat occupies the same node as the Mouse, the Cat wins.<br>   If ever the Mouse reaches the Hole, the Mouse wins.<br>   If ever a position is repeated (i.e., the players are in the same position as a previous turn, and it is the same player's turn to move), the game is a draw.<br><br>Given a `graph`, and assuming both players play optimally, return<br><br>   `1` if the mouse wins the game,<br>   `2` if the cat wins the game, or<br>   `0` if the game is a draw.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[2,5\],\[3\],\[0,4,5\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,3\],\[0,2,3\]\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: graph = \[\[1,3\],\[0\],\[3\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= graph.length <= 50`<br>   `1 <= graph[i].length < graph.length`<br>   `0 <= graph[i][j] < graph.length`<br>   `graph[i][j] != i`<br>   `graph[i]` is unique.<br>   The mouse and the cat can always move."""<br><br><br>class Solution:<br>    def __init__(self, m, n):<br>        self.grid = [[0]  n for _ in range(m)]<br>        self.zero_count = m  n<br><br>    def pick(self):<br>        index = random.randrange(self.zero_count)<br><br>        for i, row in enumerate(self.grid):<br>            for j, cell in enumerate(row):<br>                if cell == 0:<br>                    if index == 0:<br>                        self.grid[i][j] = 1<br>                        self.zero_count -= 1<br>                        return (i, j)<br>                    index -= 1<br>        return (-1, -1)  # Should not happen
