# Query `82`

## Original Question

*There is an undirected weighted connected graph. You are given a positive integer `n` which denotes that the graph has `n` nodes labeled from `1` to `n`, and an array `edges` where each `edges[i] = [ui, vi, weighti]` denotes that there is an edge between nodes `ui` and `vi` with weight equal to `weighti`.

A path from node `start` to node `end` is a sequence of nodes `[z0, z1, z2, ..., zk]` such that `z0 = start` and `zk = end` and there is an edge between `zi` and `zi+1` where `0 <= i <= k-1`.

The distance of a path is the sum of the weights on the edges of the path. Let `distanceToLastNode(x)` denote the shortest distance of a path between node `n` and node `x`. A restricted path is a path that also satisfies that `distanceToLastNode(zi) > distanceToLastNode(zi+1)` where `0 <= i <= k-1`.

Return _the number of restricted paths from node_ `1` _to node_ `n`. Since that number may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.

Example 1:

Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,2,3\],\[1,3,3\],\[2,3,1\],\[1,4,2\],\[5,2,2\],\[3,5,1\],\[5,4,10\]\]
Output: 3
Explanation: Each circle contains the node number in black and its `distanceToLastNode value in blue.` The three restricted paths are:
1) 1 --> 2 --> 5
2) 1 --> 2 --> 3 --> 5
3) 1 --> 3 --> 5

Example 2:

Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[1,3,1\],\[4,1,2\],\[7,3,4\],\[2,5,3\],\[5,6,1\],\[6,7,2\],\[7,5,3\],\[2,6,4\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation: Each circle contains the node number in black and its `distanceToLastNode value in blue.` The only restricted path is 1 --> 3 --> 7.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 2  104`
   `n - 1 <= edges.length <= 4  104`
   `edges[i].length == 3`
   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`
   `ui != vi`
   `1 <= weighti <= 105`
   There is at most one edge between any two nodes.
   There is at least one path between any two nodes.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0270
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1906
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1906
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0270
map_cut_100: 0.0270
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1761.txt
> def count_vowel_strings(n):<br>    """You are given an undirected graph. You are given an integer `n` which is the number of nodes in the graph and an array `edges`, where each `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates that there is an undirected edge between `ui` and `vi`.<br><br>A connected trio is a set of three nodes where there is an edge between every pair of them.<br><br>The degree of a connected trio is the number of edges where one endpoint is in the trio, and the other is not.<br><br>Return _the minimum degree of a connected trio in the graph, or_ `-1` _if the graph has no connected trios._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,2\],\[4,1\],\[5,2\],\[3,6\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: There is exactly one trio, which is \[1,2,3\]. The edges that form its degree are bolded in the figure above.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[1,3\],\[4,1\],\[4,3\],\[2,5\],\[5,6\],\[6,7\],\[7,5\],\[2,6\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are exactly three trios:<br>1) \[1,4,3\] with degree 0.<br>2) \[2,5,6\] with degree 2.<br>3) \[5,6,7\] with degree 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 400`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= n  (n-1) / 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br>    dp = [1, 1, 1, 1, 1]<br><br>    for i in range(1, n):<br>        for j in range(3, -1, -1):<br>            dp[j] += dp[j + 1]<br><br>    return sum(dp)

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1782.txt
> def get_smallest_string(n: int, k: int) - str:<br>    """You are given an undirected graph defined by an integer `n`, the number of nodes, and a 2D integer array `edges`, the edges in the graph, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates that there is an undirected edge between `ui` and `vi`. You are also given an integer array `queries`.<br><br>Let `incident(a, b)` be defined as the number of edges that are connected to either node `a` or `b`.<br><br>The answer to the `jth` query is the number of pairs of nodes `(a, b)` that satisfy both of the following conditions:<br><br>   `a < b`<br>   `incident(a, b)  queries[j]`<br><br>Return _an array_ `answers` _such that_ `answers.length == queries.length` _and_ `answers[j]` _is the answer of the_ `jth` _query_.<br><br>Note that there can be multiple edges between the same two nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,3\],\[2,1\]\], queries = \[2,3\]<br>Output: \[6,5\]<br>Explanation: The calculations for incident(a, b) are shown in the table above.<br>The answers for each of the queries are as follows:<br>- answers\[0\] = 6. All the pairs have an incident(a, b) value greater than 2.<br>- answers\[1\] = 5. All the pairs except (3, 4) have an incident(a, b) value greater than 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edges = \[\[1,5\],\[1,5\],\[3,4\],\[2,5\],\[1,3\],\[5,1\],\[2,3\],\[2,5\]\], queries = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: \[10,10,9,8,6\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 2  104`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 20`<br>   `0 <= queries[j] < edges.length`"""<br><br>    result = ['a']  n<br>    k -= n<br>    idx = n - 1<br>    while k  0:<br>        value = min(k, 25)<br>        result[idx] = chr(ord(result[idx]) + value)<br>        k -= value<br>        idx -= 1<br>    return ''.join(result)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2203.txt
> from heapq import heappop, heappush<br>    """You are given an integer `n` denoting the number of nodes of a weighted directed graph. The nodes are numbered from `0` to `n - 1`.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi, weighti]` denotes that there exists a directed edge from `fromi` to `toi` with weight `weighti`.<br><br>Lastly, you are given three distinct integers `src1`, `src2`, and `dest` denoting three distinct nodes of the graph.<br><br>Return _the minimum weight of a subgraph of the graph such that it is possible to reach_ `dest` _from both_ `src1` _and_ `src2` _via a set of edges of this subgraph_. In case such a subgraph does not exist, return `-1`.<br><br>A subgraph is a graph whose vertices and edges are subsets of the original graph. The weight of a subgraph is the sum of weights of its constituent edges.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,2,2\],\[0,5,6\],\[1,0,3\],\[1,4,5\],\[2,1,1\],\[2,3,3\],\[2,3,4\],\[3,4,2\],\[4,5,1\]\], src1 = 0, src2 = 1, dest = 5<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>The above figure represents the input graph.<br>The blue edges represent one of the subgraphs that yield the optimal answer.<br>Note that the subgraph \[\[1,0,3\],\[0,5,6\]\] also yields the optimal answer. It is not possible to get a subgraph with less weight satisfying all the constraints.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[0,1,1\],\[2,1,1\]\], src1 = 0, src2 = 1, dest = 2<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation:<br>The above figure represents the input graph.<br>It can be seen that there does not exist any path from node 1 to node 2, hence there are no subgraphs satisfying all the constraints.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `3 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= 105`<br>   `edges[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi, src1, src2, dest <= n - 1`<br>   `fromi != toi`<br>   `src1`, `src2`, and `dest` are pairwise distinct.<br>   `1 <= weight[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>from sys import maxsize<br><br>def dijkstra(src, adj):<br>    dist = [maxsize]  len(adj)<br>    dist[src] = 0<br>    pq = [(0, src)]<br><br>    while pq:<br>        d, u = heappop(pq)<br>        if d != dist[u]:<br>            continue<br>        for v, w in adj[u]:<br>            if d + w < dist[v]:<br>                dist[v] = d + w<br>                heappush(pq, (dist[v], v))<br><br>    return dist<br><br>def min_weight_subgraph(n, edges, src1, src2, dest):<br>    adj = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br>    for u, v, w in edges:<br>        adj[u].append((v, w))<br><br>    dist1 = dijkstra(src1, adj)<br>    dist2 = dijkstra(src2, adj)<br><br>    res = dist1[dest] + dist2[dest]<br>    for u, v, w in edges:<br>        res = min(res, dist1[u] + dist2[v] + w)<br>        res = min(res, dist1[v] + dist2[u] + w)<br><br>    return res if res != maxsize else -1

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2608.txt
> from collections import deque<br>    """There is a bi-directional graph with `n` vertices, where each vertex is labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. The edges in the graph are represented by a given 2D integer array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` denotes an edge between vertex `ui` and vertex `vi`. Every vertex pair is connected by at most one edge, and no vertex has an edge to itself.<br><br>Return _the length of the shortest cycle in the graph_. If no cycle exists, return `-1`.<br><br>A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the same node, and each edge in the path is used only once.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 7, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,0\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\],\[5,6\],\[6,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The cycle with the smallest length is : 0 - 1 - 2 - 0 <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\]\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: There are no cycles in this graph.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= 1000`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ui, vi < n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There are no repeated edges."""<br><br><br>def shortest_cycle_length(n, edges):<br>    graph = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br>    for u, v in edges:<br>        graph[u].append(v)<br>        graph[v].append(u)<br>        <br>    shortest_cycle = n + 1<br>    for start in range(n):<br>        dist = [n + 1]  n<br>        dist[start] = 0<br>        queue = deque([start])<br>        <br>        while queue:<br>            cur = queue.popleft()<br>            for neigh in graph[cur]:<br>                if dist[neigh] == n + 1:<br>                    dist[neigh] = dist[cur] + 1<br>                    queue.append(neigh)<br>                elif dist[neigh] = dist[cur] - 1:<br>                    shortest_cycle = min(shortest_cycle, dist[cur] + dist[neigh] + 1)<br>                    <br>    return -1 if shortest_cycle == n + 1 else shortest_cycle

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2497.txt
> def max_star_sum(vals, edges, k):<br>    """There is an undirected graph consisting of `n` nodes numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `vals` of length `n` where `vals[i]` denotes the value of the `ith` node.<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` denotes that there exists an undirected edge connecting nodes `ai` and `bi.`<br><br>A star graph is a subgraph of the given graph having a center node containing `0` or more neighbors. In other words, it is a subset of edges of the given graph such that there exists a common node for all edges.<br><br>The image below shows star graphs with `3` and `4` neighbors respectively, centered at the blue node.<br><br>The star sum is the sum of the values of all the nodes present in the star graph.<br><br>Given an integer `k`, return _the maximum star sum of a star graph containing at most_ `k` _edges._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: vals = \[1,2,3,4,10,-10,-20\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\]\], k = 2<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>The star graph with the maximum star sum is denoted by blue. It is centered at 3 and includes its neighbors 1 and 4.<br>It can be shown it is not possible to get a star graph with a sum greater than 16.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: vals = \[-5\], edges = \[\], k = 0<br>Output: -5<br>Explanation: There is only one possible star graph, which is node 0 itself.<br>Hence, we return -5.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == vals.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `-104 <= vals[i] <= 104`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(n  (n - 1) / 2``, 105)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi <= n - 1`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `0 <= k <= n - 1`"""<br><br>    adj = [[] for _ in range(len(vals))]<br><br>    for edge in edges:<br>        adj[edge[0]].append(vals[edge[1]])<br>        adj[edge[1]].append(vals[edge[0]])<br><br>    ans = float("-inf")<br>    for i in range(len(vals)):<br>        adj[i].sort(reverse=True)<br>        ans = max(ans, vals[i] + sum(adj[i][:k]))<br><br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 36, leetcode/leetcode_2192.txt
> def min_cost(grid, start_pos, home_pos, row_costs, col_costs):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `n` representing the number of nodes of a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). The nodes are numbered from `0` to `n - 1` (inclusive).<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi]` denotes that there is a unidirectional edge from `fromi` to `toi` in the graph.<br><br>Return _a list_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the list of ancestors of the_ `ith` _node, sorted in ascending order_.<br><br>A node `u` is an ancestor of another node `v` if `u` can reach `v` via a set of edges.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 8, edgeList = \[\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,7\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\],\[3,7\],\[4,6\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[\],\[\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,1,3\],\[0,1,2,3,4\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Nodes 0, 1, and 2 do not have any ancestors.<br>- Node 3 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 4 has two ancestors 0 and 2.<br>- Node 5 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 3.<br>- Node 6 has five ancestors 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4.<br>- Node 7 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edgeList = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[0\],\[0,1\],\[0,1,2\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Node 0 does not have any ancestor.<br>- Node 1 has one ancestor 0.<br>- Node 2 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 3 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 2.<br>- Node 4 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(2000, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi <= n - 1`<br>   `fromi != toi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   The graph is directed and acyclic."""<br><br>    return abs(row_costs[start_pos[0]] - row_costs[home_pos[0]]) + abs(col_costs[start_pos[1]] - col_costs[home_pos[1]])
