# Query `83`

## Original Question

*You are given `n`​​​​​​ tasks labeled from `0` to `n - 1` represented by a 2D integer array `tasks`, where `tasks[i] = [enqueueTimei, processingTimei]` means that the `i​​​​​​th`​​​​ task will be available to process at `enqueueTimei` and will take `processingTimei` to finish processing.

You have a single-threaded CPU that can process at most one task at a time and will act in the following way:

   If the CPU is idle and there are no available tasks to process, the CPU remains idle.
   If the CPU is idle and there are available tasks, the CPU will choose the one with the shortest processing time. If multiple tasks have the same shortest processing time, it will choose the task with the smallest index.
   Once a task is started, the CPU will process the entire task without stopping.
   The CPU can finish a task then start a new one instantly.

Return _the order in which the CPU will process the tasks._

Example 1:

Input: tasks = \[\[1,2\],\[2,4\],\[3,2\],\[4,1\]\]
Output: \[0,2,3,1\]
Explanation: The events go as follows: 
- At time = 1, task 0 is available to process. Available tasks = {0}.
- Also at time = 1, the idle CPU starts processing task 0. Available tasks = {}.
- At time = 2, task 1 is available to process. Available tasks = {1}.
- At time = 3, task 2 is available to process. Available tasks = {1, 2}.
- Also at time = 3, the CPU finishes task 0 and starts processing task 2 as it is the shortest. Available tasks = {1}.
- At time = 4, task 3 is available to process. Available tasks = {1, 3}.
- At time = 5, the CPU finishes task 2 and starts processing task 3 as it is the shortest. Available tasks = {1}.
- At time = 6, the CPU finishes task 3 and starts processing task 1. Available tasks = {}.
- At time = 10, the CPU finishes task 1 and becomes idle.

Example 2:

Input: tasks = \[\[7,10\],\[7,12\],\[7,5\],\[7,4\],\[7,2\]\]
Output: \[4,3,2,0,1\]
Explanation: The events go as follows:
- At time = 7, all the tasks become available. Available tasks = {0,1,2,3,4}.
- Also at time = 7, the idle CPU starts processing task 4. Available tasks = {0,1,2,3}.
- At time = 9, the CPU finishes task 4 and starts processing task 3. Available tasks = {0,1,2}.
- At time = 13, the CPU finishes task 3 and starts processing task 2. Available tasks = {0,1}.
- At time = 18, the CPU finishes task 2 and starts processing task 0. Available tasks = {1}.
- At time = 28, the CPU finishes task 0 and starts processing task 1. Available tasks = {}.
- At time = 40, the CPU finishes task 1 and becomes idle.

Constraints:

   `tasks.length == n`
   `1 <= n <= 105`
   `1 <= enqueueTimei, processingTimei <= 109`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.1000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0400
P_100: 0.0200
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.1772
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1772
ndcg_cut_50: 0.2932
ndcg_cut_100: 0.2932
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0500
map_cut_25: 0.0500
map_cut_50: 0.0763
map_cut_100: 0.0763
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2365.txt
> def min_days_to_complete_tasks(tasks, space):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array of positive integers `tasks`, representing tasks that need to be completed in order, where `tasks[i]` represents the type of the `ith` task.<br><br>You are also given a positive integer `space`, which represents the minimum number of days that must pass after the completion of a task before another task of the same type can be performed.<br><br>Each day, until all tasks have been completed, you must either:<br><br>   Complete the next task from `tasks`, or<br>   Take a break.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of days needed to complete all tasks_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[1,2,1,2,3,1\], space = 3<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 9 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>Day 7: Take a break.<br>Day 8: Complete the 4th task.<br>Day 9: Complete the 5th task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 9 days.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[5,8,8,5\], space = 2<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation:<br>One way to complete all tasks in 6 days is as follows:<br>Day 1: Complete the 0th task.<br>Day 2: Complete the 1st task.<br>Day 3: Take a break.<br>Day 4: Take a break.<br>Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.<br>Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.<br>It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 6 days.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= tasks.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= tasks[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= space <= tasks.length`"""<br><br>    task_last_complete = {}<br>    days = 0<br><br>    for task in tasks:<br>        if task in task_last_complete:<br>            passed_days = days - task_last_complete[task]<br>            if passed_days < space:<br>                days += space - passed_days<br>        days += 1<br>        task_last_complete[task] = days<br><br>    return days

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2039.txt
> def sumGame(num: str) - bool:<br>    """There is a network of `n` servers, labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 2D integer array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` indicates there is a message channel between servers `ui` and `vi`, and they can pass any number of messages to each other directly in one second. You are also given a 0-indexed integer array `patience` of length `n`.<br><br>All servers are connected, i.e., a message can be passed from one server to any other server(s) directly or indirectly through the message channels.<br><br>The server labeled `0` is the master server. The rest are data servers. Each data server needs to send its message to the master server for processing and wait for a reply. Messages move between servers optimally, so every message takes the least amount of time to arrive at the master server. The master server will process all newly arrived messages instantly and send a reply to the originating server via the reversed path the message had gone through.<br><br>At the beginning of second `0`, each data server sends its message to be processed. Starting from second `1`, at the beginning of every second, each data server will check if it has received a reply to the message it sent (including any newly arrived replies) from the master server:<br><br>   If it has not, it will resend the message periodically. The data server `i` will resend the message every `patience[i]` second(s), i.e., the data server `i` will resend the message if `patience[i]` second(s) have elapsed since the last time the message was sent from this server.<br>   Otherwise, no more resending will occur from this server.<br><br>The network becomes idle when there are no messages passing between servers or arriving at servers.<br><br>Return _the earliest second starting from which the network becomes idle_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\]\], patience = \[0,2,1\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation:<br>At (the beginning of) second 0,<br>- Data server 1 sends its message (denoted 1A) to the master server.<br>- Data server 2 sends its message (denoted 2A) to the master server.<br><br>At second 1,<br>- Message 1A arrives at the master server. Master server processes message 1A instantly and sends a reply 1A back.<br>- Server 1 has not received any reply. 1 second (1 < patience\[1\] = 2) elapsed since this server has sent the message, therefore it does not resend the message.<br>- Server 2 has not received any reply. 1 second (1 == patience\[2\] = 1) elapsed since this server has sent the message, therefore it resends the message (denoted 2B).<br><br>At second 2,<br>- The reply 1A arrives at server 1. No more resending will occur from server 1.<br>- Message 2A arrives at the master server. Master server processes message 2A instantly and sends a reply 2A back.<br>- Server 2 resends the message (denoted 2C).<br>...<br>At second 4,<br>- The reply 2A arrives at server 2. No more resending will occur from server 2.<br>...<br>At second 7, reply 2D arrives at server 2.<br><br>Starting from the beginning of the second 8, there are no messages passing between servers or arriving at servers.<br>This is the time when the network becomes idle.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,2\]\], patience = \[0,10,10\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Data servers 1 and 2 receive a reply back at the beginning of second 2.<br>From the beginning of the second 3, the network becomes idle.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == patience.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `patience[0] == 0`<br>   `1 <= patience[i] <= 105` for `1 <= i < n`<br>   `1 <= edges.length <= min(105, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ui, vi < n`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   Each server can directly or indirectly reach another server."""<br><br>    n = len(num)<br>    sum1, sum2, cnt1, cnt2 = 0, 0, 0, 0<br><br>    for i in range(n // 2):<br>        if num[i] == '?': cnt1 += 1<br>        else: sum1 += int(num[i])<br><br>    for i in range(n // 2, n):<br>        if num[i] == '?': cnt2 += 1<br>        else: sum2 += int(num[i])<br><br>    return (sum1 - sum2) != ((cnt2 - cnt1) // 2)  9

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1976.txt
> def can_split_string(s: str) - bool:<br>    """You are in a city that consists of `n` intersections numbered from `0` to `n - 1` with bi-directional roads between some intersections. The inputs are generated such that you can reach any intersection from any other intersection and that there is at most one road between any two intersections.<br><br>You are given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array `roads` where `roads[i] = [ui, vi, timei]` means that there is a road between intersections `ui` and `vi` that takes `timei` minutes to travel. You want to know in how many ways you can travel from intersection `0` to intersection `n - 1` in the shortest amount of time.<br><br>Return _the number of ways you can arrive at your destination in the shortest amount of time_. Since the answer may be large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 7, roads = \[\[0,6,7\],\[0,1,2\],\[1,2,3\],\[1,3,3\],\[6,3,3\],\[3,5,1\],\[6,5,1\],\[2,5,1\],\[0,4,5\],\[4,6,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The shortest amount of time it takes to go from intersection 0 to intersection 6 is 7 minutes.<br>The four ways to get there in 7 minutes are:<br>- 0 ➝ 6<br>- 0 ➝ 4 ➝ 6<br>- 0 ➝ 1 ➝ 2 ➝ 5 ➝ 6<br>- 0 ➝ 1 ➝ 3 ➝ 5 ➝ 6<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, roads = \[\[1,0,10\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There is only one way to go from intersection 0 to intersection 1, and it takes 10 minutes.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 200`<br>   `n - 1 <= roads.length <= n  (n - 1) / 2`<br>   `roads[i].length == 3`<br>   `0 <= ui, vi <= n - 1`<br>   `1 <= timei <= 109`<br>   `ui != vi`<br>   There is at most one road connecting any two intersections.<br>   You can reach any intersection from any other intersection."""<br><br>    count = [0]  10<br><br>    for c in s:<br>        count[int(c)] += 1<br><br>    for i in range(1, 10):<br>        if count[i]  0 and count[i] == count[i - 1]:<br>            return True<br><br>    return False

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2106.txt
> from math import gcd<br>    """Fruits are available at some positions on an infinite x-axis. You are given a 2D integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i] = [positioni, amounti]` depicts `amounti` fruits at the position `positioni`. `fruits` is already sorted by `positioni` in ascending order, and each `positioni` is unique.<br><br>You are also given an integer `startPos` and an integer `k`. Initially, you are at the position `startPos`. From any position, you can either walk to the left or right. It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis, and you can walk at most `k` steps in total. For every position you reach, you harvest all the fruits at that position, and the fruits will disappear from that position.<br><br>Return _the maximum total number of fruits you can harvest_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[2,8\],\[6,3\],\[8,6\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: <br>The optimal way is to:<br>- Move right to position 6 and harvest 3 fruits<br>- Move right to position 8 and harvest 6 fruits<br>You moved 3 steps and harvested 3 + 6 = 9 fruits in total.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[0,9\],\[4,1\],\[5,7\],\[6,2\],\[7,4\],\[10,9\]\], startPos = 5, k = 4<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: <br>You can move at most k = 4 steps, so you cannot reach position 0 nor 10.<br>The optimal way is to:<br>- Harvest the 7 fruits at the starting position 5<br>- Move left to position 4 and harvest 1 fruit<br>- Move right to position 6 and harvest 2 fruits<br>- Move right to position 7 and harvest 4 fruits<br>You moved 1 + 3 = 4 steps and harvested 7 + 1 + 2 + 4 = 14 fruits in total.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: fruits = \[\[0,3\],\[6,4\],\[8,5\]\], startPos = 3, k = 2<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>You can move at most k = 2 steps and cannot reach any position with fruits.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`<br>   `fruits[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= startPos, positioni <= 2  105`<br>   `positioni-1 < positioni` for any `i  0` (0-indexed)<br>   `1 <= amounti <= 104`<br>   `0 <= k <= 2  105`"""<br><br><br>def findGCD(nums):<br>    return gcd(min(nums), max(nums))

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2192.txt
> def min_cost(grid, start_pos, home_pos, row_costs, col_costs):<br>    """You are given a positive integer `n` representing the number of nodes of a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). The nodes are numbered from `0` to `n - 1` (inclusive).<br><br>You are also given a 2D integer array `edges`, where `edges[i] = [fromi, toi]` denotes that there is a unidirectional edge from `fromi` to `toi` in the graph.<br><br>Return _a list_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the list of ancestors of the_ `ith` _node, sorted in ascending order_.<br><br>A node `u` is an ancestor of another node `v` if `u` can reach `v` via a set of edges.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 8, edgeList = \[\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,7\],\[3,5\],\[3,6\],\[3,7\],\[4,6\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[\],\[\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,1,3\],\[0,1,2,3,4\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Nodes 0, 1, and 2 do not have any ancestors.<br>- Node 3 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 4 has two ancestors 0 and 2.<br>- Node 5 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 3.<br>- Node 6 has five ancestors 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4.<br>- Node 7 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, edgeList = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[0,3\],\[0,4\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[1,4\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[\[\],\[0\],\[0,1\],\[0,1,2\],\[0,1,2,3\]\]<br>Explanation:<br>The above diagram represents the input graph.<br>- Node 0 does not have any ancestor.<br>- Node 1 has one ancestor 0.<br>- Node 2 has two ancestors 0 and 1.<br>- Node 3 has three ancestors 0, 1, and 2.<br>- Node 4 has four ancestors 0, 1, 2, and 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= edges.length <= min(2000, n  (n - 1) / 2)`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= fromi, toi <= n - 1`<br>   `fromi != toi`<br>   There are no duplicate edges.<br>   The graph is directed and acyclic."""<br><br>    return abs(row_costs[start_pos[0]] - row_costs[home_pos[0]]) + abs(col_costs[start_pos[1]] - col_costs[home_pos[1]])


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 37, leetcode/leetcode_2050.txt
> def count_good_digit_strings(n):<br>    """You are given an integer `n`, which indicates that there are `n` courses labeled from `1` to `n`. You are also given a 2D integer array `relations` where `relations[j] = [prevCoursej, nextCoursej]` denotes that course `prevCoursej` has to be completed before course `nextCoursej` (prerequisite relationship). Furthermore, you are given a 0-indexed integer array `time` where `time[i]` denotes how many months it takes to complete the `(i+1)th` course.<br><br>You must find the minimum number of months needed to complete all the courses following these rules:<br><br>   You may start taking a course at any time if the prerequisites are met.<br>   Any number of courses can be taken at the same time.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of months needed to complete all the courses_.<br><br>Note: The test cases are generated such that it is possible to complete every course (i.e., the graph is a directed acyclic graph).<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, relations = \[\[1,3\],\[2,3\]\], time = \[3,2,5\]<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: The figure above represents the given graph and the time required to complete each course. <br>We start course 1 and course 2 simultaneously at month 0.<br>Course 1 takes 3 months and course 2 takes 2 months to complete respectively.<br>Thus, the earliest time we can start course 3 is at month 3, and the total time required is 3 + 5 = 8 months.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 5, relations = \[\[1,5\],\[2,5\],\[3,5\],\[3,4\],\[4,5\]\], time = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: 12<br>Explanation: The figure above represents the given graph and the time required to complete each course.<br>You can start courses 1, 2, and 3 at month 0.<br>You can complete them after 1, 2, and 3 months respectively.<br>Course 4 can be taken only after course 3 is completed, i.e., after 3 months. It is completed after 3 + 4 = 7 months.<br>Course 5 can be taken only after courses 1, 2, 3, and 4 have been completed, i.e., after max(1,2,3,7) = 7 months.<br>Thus, the minimum time needed to complete all the courses is 7 + 5 = 12 months.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5  104`<br>   `0 <= relations.length <= min(n  (n - 1) / 2, 5  104)`<br>   `relations[j].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= prevCoursej, nextCoursej <= n`<br>   `prevCoursej != nextCoursej`<br>   All the pairs `[prevCoursej, nextCoursej]` are unique.<br>   `time.length == n`<br>   `1 <= time[i] <= 104`<br>   The given graph is a directed acyclic graph."""<br><br>    mod = 10  9 + 7<br>    even_digits, prime_digits = 5, 4<br>    total = 1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        total = total  (even_digits if i % 2 == 0 else prime_digits) % mod<br>    return total

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked 9, leetcode/leetcode_2589.txt
> def min_time_on(tasks):<br>    """There is a computer that can run an unlimited number of tasks at the same time. You are given a 2D integer array `tasks` where `tasks[i] = [starti, endi, durationi]` indicates that the `ith` task should run for a total of `durationi` seconds (not necessarily continuous) within the inclusive time range `[starti, endi]`.<br><br>You may turn on the computer only when it needs to run a task. You can also turn it off if it is idle.<br><br>Return _the minimum time during which the computer should be turned on to complete all tasks_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[\[2,3,1\],\[4,5,1\],\[1,5,2\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: <br>- The first task can be run in the inclusive time range \[2, 2\].<br>- The second task can be run in the inclusive time range \[5, 5\].<br>- The third task can be run in the two inclusive time ranges \[2, 2\] and \[5, 5\].<br>The computer will be on for a total of 2 seconds.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: tasks = \[\[1,3,2\],\[2,5,3\],\[5,6,2\]\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: <br>- The first task can be run in the inclusive time range \[2, 3\].<br>- The second task can be run in the inclusive time ranges \[2, 3\] and \[5, 5\].<br>- The third task can be run in the two inclusive time range \[5, 6\].<br>The computer will be on for a total of 4 seconds.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= tasks.length <= 2000`<br>   `tasks[i].length == 3`<br>   `1 <= starti, endi <= 2000`<br>   `1 <= durationi <= endi - starti + 1`"""<br><br>    intervals = sorted([[task[1] + 1, task[2]] for task in tasks])<br><br>    dp = [0]  2001<br>    for interval in intervals:<br>        for i in range(2000, interval[0] - 1, -1):<br>            dp[i] = max(dp[i], dp[i - interval[1]] + interval[1])<br><br>    return dp[-1]
