# Query `88`

## Original Question

*Given an integer `n`, return `true` _if_ `n` _has exactly three positive divisors. Otherwise, return_ `false`.

An integer `m` is a divisor of `n` if there exists an integer `k` such that `n = k  m`.

Example 1:

Input: n = 2
Output: false
Explantion: 2 has only two divisors: 1 and 2.

Example 2:

Input: n = 4
Output: true
Explantion: 4 has three divisors: 1, 2, and 4.

Constraints:

   `1 <= n <= 104`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0500
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.1396
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1396
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1396
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0250
map_cut_50: 0.0250
map_cut_100: 0.0250
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_507.txt
> def checkPerfectNumber(num: int) - bool:<br>    """A [perfect number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_number) is a positive integer that is equal to the sum of its positive divisors, excluding the number itself. A divisor of an integer `x` is an integer that can divide `x` evenly.<br><br>Given an integer `n`, return `true` _if_ `n` _is a perfect number, otherwise return_ `false`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: num = 28<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: 28 = 1 + 2 + 4 + 7 + 14<br>1, 2, 4, 7, and 14 are all divisors of 28.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: num = 7<br>Output: false<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= num <= 108`"""<br><br>    if num <= 1:<br>        return False<br>    sum = 1<br>    i = 2<br>    while i  i <= num:<br>        if num % i == 0:<br>            sum += i<br>            if i  i != num:<br>                sum += num // i<br>        i += 1<br>    return sum == num

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1356.txt
> def min_moves_to_palindrome(s: str) - int:<br>    """You are given an integer array `arr`. Sort the integers in the array in ascending order by the number of `1`'s in their binary representation and in case of two or more integers have the same number of `1`'s you have to sort them in ascending order.<br><br>Return _the array after sorting it_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: arr = \[0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8\]<br>Output: \[0,1,2,4,8,3,5,6,7\]<br>Explantion: \[0\] is the only integer with 0 bits.<br>\[1,2,4,8\] all have 1 bit.<br>\[3,5,6\] have 2 bits.<br>\[7\] has 3 bits.<br>The sorted array by bits is \[0,1,2,4,8,3,5,6,7\]<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: arr = \[1024,512,256,128,64,32,16,8,4,2,1\]<br>Output: \[1,2,4,8,16,32,64,128,256,512,1024\]<br>Explantion: All integers have 1 bit in the binary representation, you should just sort them in ascending order.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= arr.length <= 500`<br>   `0 <= arr[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    moves = 0<br>    s = list(s)<br>    left, right = 0, len(s) - 1<br><br>    while left < right:<br>        if s[left] != s[right]:<br>            temp_right = right<br><br>            while s[left] != s[temp_right]:<br>                temp_right -= 1<br>            s.insert(right, s.pop(temp_right))<br>            moves += right - temp_right<br>        left += 1<br>        right -= 1<br><br>    return moves

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1390.txt
> def sum_of_four_divisors(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the sum of divisors of the integers in that array that have exactly four divisors_. If there is no such integer in the array, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[21,4,7\]<br>Output: 32<br>Explanation: <br>21 has 4 divisors: 1, 3, 7, 21<br>4 has 3 divisors: 1, 2, 4<br>7 has 2 divisors: 1, 7<br>The answer is the sum of divisors of 21 only.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[21,21\]<br>Output: 64<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3,4,5\]<br>Output: 0<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 104`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    total_sum = 0<br>    for num in nums:<br>        count = 0<br>        div_sum = 0<br>        i = 1<br>        while i  i <= num:<br>            if num % i == 0:<br>                count += 1 if i  i == num else 2<br>                div_sum += i + (num // i)<br>                if count  4:<br>                    break<br>            i += 1<br>        if count == 4:<br>            total_sum += div_sum<br>    return total_sum

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_523.txt
> def checkSubarraySum(nums, k):<br>    """Given an integer array nums and an integer k, return `true` _if_ `nums` _has a good subarray or_ `false` _otherwise_.<br><br>A good subarray is a subarray where:<br><br>   its length is at least two, and<br>   the sum of the elements of the subarray is a multiple of `k`.<br><br>Note that:<br><br>   A subarray is a contiguous part of the array.<br>   An integer `x` is a multiple of `k` if there exists an integer `n` such that `x = n  k`. `0` is always a multiple of `k`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[23,2,4,6,7\], k = 6<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: \[2, 4\] is a continuous subarray of size 2 whose elements sum up to 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[23,2,6,4,7\], k = 6<br>Output: true<br>Explanation: \[23, 2, 6, 4, 7\] is an continuous subarray of size 5 whose elements sum up to 42.<br>42 is a multiple of 6 because 42 = 7 \ 6 and 7 is an integer.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[23,2,6,4,7\], k = 13<br>Output: false<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   `0 <= sum(nums[i]) <= 231 - 1`<br>   `1 <= k <= 231 - 1`"""<br><br>    n, sum_ = len(nums), 0<br>    mp = {0: -1}<br>    for i, num in enumerate(nums):<br>        sum_ += num<br>        if k != 0:<br>            sum_ %= k<br>        if sum_ in mp:<br>            if i - mp[sum_]  1:<br>                return True<br>        else:<br>            mp[sum_] = i<br>    return False

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1017.txt
> def odd_even_jumps(arr):<br>    """Given an integer `n`, return _a binary string representing its representation in base_ `-2`.<br><br>Note that the returned string should not have leading zeros unless the string is `"0 "`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 2<br>Output:  "110 "<br>Explantion: (-2)2 + (-2)1 = 2<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 3<br>Output:  "111 "<br>Explantion: (-2)2 + (-2)1 + (-2)0 = 3<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4<br>Output:  "100 "<br>Explantion: (-2)2 = 4<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `0 <= n <= 109`"""<br><br>    n = len(arr)<br>    can_reach_odd = [False]  n<br>    can_reach_even = [False]  n<br>    can_reach_odd[-1] = can_reach_even[-1] = True<br><br>    index_map = {}<br>    index_map[arr[-1]] = n - 1<br><br>    good_indices = 1<br>    for i in range(n - 2, -1, -1):<br>        odd_jump = next(iter([value for value in index_map if value = arr[i]]), None)<br>        even_jump = next(iter([value for value in index_map if value <= arr[i]]), None)<br><br>        if odd_jump is not None:<br>            can_reach_odd[i] = can_reach_even[index_map[odd_jump]]<br>        if even_jump is not None:<br>            can_reach_even[i] = can_reach_odd[index_map[even_jump]]<br><br>        if can_reach_odd[i]:<br>            good_indices += 1<br><br>        index_map[arr[i]] = i<br><br>    return good_indices


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 19, leetcode/leetcode_1979.txt
> def findGCD(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the greatest common divisor of the smallest number and largest number in_ `nums`.<br><br>The greatest common divisor of two numbers is the largest positive integer that evenly divides both numbers.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,5,6,9,10\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>The smallest number in nums is 2.<br>The largest number in nums is 10.<br>The greatest common divisor of 2 and 10 is 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,5,6,8,3\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>The smallest number in nums is 3.<br>The largest number in nums is 8.<br>The greatest common divisor of 3 and 8 is 1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,3\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation:<br>The smallest number in nums is 3.<br>The largest number in nums is 3.<br>The greatest common divisor of 3 and 3 is 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    min_val, max_val = min(nums), max(nums)<br>    while max_val % min_val != 0:<br>        min_val, max_val = max_val % min_val, min_val<br>    return min_val

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_2413.txt
> def smallest_multiple(n):<br>    """Given a positive integer `n`, return _the smallest positive integer that is a multiple of both_ `2` _and_ `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 5<br>Output: 10<br>Explanation: The smallest multiple of both 5 and 2 is 10.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 6<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: The smallest multiple of both 6 and 2 is 6. Note that a number is a multiple of itself.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 150`"""<br><br>    return n if n % 2 == 0 else n  2
