# Query `89`

## Original Question

*You want to build some obstacle courses. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `obstacles` of length `n`, where `obstacles[i]` describes the height of the `ith` obstacle.

For every index `i` between `0` and `n - 1` (inclusive), find the length of the longest obstacle course in `obstacles` such that:

   You choose any number of obstacles between `0` and `i` inclusive.
   You must include the `ith` obstacle in the course.
   You must put the chosen obstacles in the same order as they appear in `obstacles`.
   Every obstacle (except the first) is taller than or the same height as the obstacle immediately before it.

Return _an array_ `ans` _of length_ `n`, _where_ `ans[i]` _is the length of the longest obstacle course for index_ `i` _as described above_.

Example 1:

Input: obstacles = \[1,2,3,2\]
Output: \[1,2,3,3\]
Explanation: The longest valid obstacle course at each position is:
- i = 0: \[1\], \[1\] has length 1.
- i = 1: \[1,2\], \[1,2\] has length 2.
- i = 2: \[1,2,3\], \[1,2,3\] has length 3.
- i = 3: \[1,2,3,2\], \[1,2,2\] has length 3.

Example 2:

Input: obstacles = \[2,2,1\]
Output: \[1,2,1\]
Explanation: The longest valid obstacle course at each position is:
- i = 0: \[2\], \[2\] has length 1.
- i = 1: \[2,2\], \[2,2\] has length 2.
- i = 2: \[2,2,1\], \[1\] has length 1.

Example 3:

Input: obstacles = \[3,1,5,6,4,2\]
Output: \[1,1,2,3,2,2\]
Explanation: The longest valid obstacle course at each position is:
- i = 0: \[3\], \[3\] has length 1.
- i = 1: \[3,1\], \[1\] has length 1.
- i = 2: \[3,1,5\], \[3,5\] has length 2. \[1,5\] is also valid.
- i = 3: \[3,1,5,6\], \[3,5,6\] has length 3. \[1,5,6\] is also valid.
- i = 4: \[3,1,5,6,4\], \[3,4\] has length 2. \[1,4\] is also valid.
- i = 5: \[3,1,5,6,4,2\], \[1,2\] has length 2.

Constraints:

   `n == obstacles.length`
   `1 <= n <= 105`
   `1 <= obstacles[i] <= 107`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0019
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1824.txt
> import heapq<br>    """There is a 3 lane road of length `n` that consists of `n + 1` points labeled from `0` to `n`. A frog starts at point `0` in the second lane and wants to jump to point `n`. However, there could be obstacles along the way.<br><br>You are given an array `obstacles` of length `n + 1` where each `obstacles[i]` (ranging from 0 to 3) describes an obstacle on the lane `obstacles[i]` at point `i`. If `obstacles[i] == 0`, there are no obstacles at point `i`. There will be at most one obstacle in the 3 lanes at each point.<br><br>   For example, if `obstacles[2] == 1`, then there is an obstacle on lane 1 at point 2.<br><br>The frog can only travel from point `i` to point `i + 1` on the same lane if there is not an obstacle on the lane at point `i + 1`. To avoid obstacles, the frog can also perform a side jump to jump to another lane (even if they are not adjacent) at the same point if there is no obstacle on the new lane.<br><br>   For example, the frog can jump from lane 3 at point 3 to lane 1 at point 3.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of side jumps the frog needs to reach any lane at point n starting from lane `2` at point 0._<br><br>Note: There will be no obstacles on points `0` and `n`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,1,2,3,0\]<br>Output: 2 <br>Explanation: The optimal solution is shown by the arrows above. There are 2 side jumps (red arrows).<br>Note that the frog can jump over obstacles only when making side jumps (as shown at point 2).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,1,1,3,3,0\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no obstacles on lane 2. No side jumps are required.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: obstacles = \[0,2,1,0,3,0\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: The optimal solution is shown by the arrows above. There are 2 side jumps.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `obstacles.length == n + 1`<br>   `1 <= n <= 5  105`<br>   `0 <= obstacles[i] <= 3`<br>   `obstacles[0] == obstacles[n] == 0`"""<br><br><br>def eatenApples(apples, days):<br>    n = len(apples)<br>    pq = []<br>    ans = 0<br><br>    for i in range(n + 1):<br>        if i < n and apples[i]  0:<br>            heapq.heappush(pq, (i + days[i], apples[i]))<br><br>        while pq and pq[0][0] <= i:<br>            heapq.heappop(pq)<br><br>        if pq:<br>            ans += 1<br>            curr_apple = heapq.heappop(pq)<br>            if curr_apple[1]  1:<br>                heapq.heappush(pq, (curr_apple[0], curr_apple[1] - 1))<br><br>    return ans

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1906.txt
> from functools import lru_cache<br>    """The minimum absolute difference of an array `a` is defined as the minimum value of `|a[i] - a[j]|`, where `0 <= i < j < a.length` and `a[i] != a[j]`. If all elements of `a` are the same, the minimum absolute difference is `-1`.<br><br>   For example, the minimum absolute difference of the array `[5,2,3,7,2]` is `|2 - 3| = 1`. Note that it is not `0` because `a[i]` and `a[j]` must be different.<br><br>You are given an integer array `nums` and the array `queries` where `queries[i] = [li, ri]`. For each query `i`, compute the minimum absolute difference of the subarray `nums[li...ri]` containing the elements of `nums` between the 0-based indices `li` and `ri` (inclusive).<br><br>Return _an array_ `ans` _where_ `ans[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous sequence of elements in an array.<br><br>The value of `|x|` is defined as:<br><br>   `x` if `x = 0`.<br>   `-x` if `x < 0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,3,4,8\], queries = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[0,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,1,4,1\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- queries\[0\] = \[0,1\]: The subarray is \[1,3\] and the minimum absolute difference is |1-3| = 2.<br>- queries\[1\] = \[1,2\]: The subarray is \[3,4\] and the minimum absolute difference is |3-4| = 1.<br>- queries\[2\] = \[2,3\]: The subarray is \[4,8\] and the minimum absolute difference is |4-8| = 4.<br>- queries\[3\] = \[0,3\]: The subarray is \[1,3,4,8\] and the minimum absolute difference is |3-4| = 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[4,5,2,2,7,10\], queries = \[\[2,3\],\[0,2\],\[0,5\],\[3,5\]\]<br>Output: \[-1,1,1,3\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- queries\[0\] = \[2,3\]: The subarray is \[2,2\] and the minimum absolute difference is -1 because all the<br>  elements are the same.<br>- queries\[1\] = \[0,2\]: The subarray is \[4,5,2\] and the minimum absolute difference is |4-5| = 1.<br>- queries\[2\] = \[0,5\]: The subarray is \[4,5,2,2,7,10\] and the minimum absolute difference is |4-5| = 1.<br>- queries\[3\] = \[3,5\]: The subarray is \[2,7,10\] and the minimum absolute difference is |7-10| = 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 100`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 2  104`<br>   `0 <= li < ri < nums.length`"""<br><br>from math import gcd<br><br>def maxScore(nums):<br>    n = len(nums)<br><br>    @lru_cache(None)<br>    def dfs(i, j):<br>        if i  n:<br>            return 0<br>        ans = 0<br>        for k in range(j + 1, n  2):<br>            ans = max(ans, dfs(i + 1, k) + i  gcd(nums[j], nums[k]))<br>        return ans<br><br>    return dfs(1, 0)

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2213.txt
> from collections import defaultdict<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed string `s`. You are also given a 0-indexed string `queryCharacters` of length `k` and a 0-indexed array of integer indices `queryIndices` of length `k`, both of which are used to describe `k` queries.<br><br>The `ith` query updates the character in `s` at index `queryIndices[i]` to the character `queryCharacters[i]`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `lengths` _of length_ `k` _where_ `lengths[i]` _is the length of the longest substring of_ `s` _consisting of only one repeating character after the_ `ith` _query_ _is performed._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: s =  "babacc ", queryCharacters =  "bcb ", queryIndices = \[1,3,3\]<br>Output: \[3,3,4\]<br>Explanation: <br>- 1st query updates s =  "bbbacc ". The longest substring consisting of one repeating character is  "bbb " with length 3.<br>- 2nd query updates s =  "bbbccc ". <br>  The longest substring consisting of one repeating character can be  "bbb " or  "ccc " with length 3.<br>- 3rd query updates s =  "bbbbcc ". The longest substring consisting of one repeating character is  "bbbb " with length 4.<br>Thus, we return \[3,3,4\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: s =  "abyzz ", queryCharacters =  "aa ", queryIndices = \[2,1\]<br>Output: \[2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>- 1st query updates s =  "abazz ". The longest substring consisting of one repeating character is  "zz " with length 2.<br>- 2nd query updates s =  "aaazz ". The longest substring consisting of one repeating character is  "aaa " with length 3.<br>Thus, we return \[2,3\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= s.length <= 105`<br>   `s` consists of lowercase English letters.<br>   `k == queryCharacters.length == queryIndices.length`<br>   `1 <= k <= 105`<br>   `queryCharacters` consists of lowercase English letters.<br>   `0 <= queryIndices[i] < s.length`"""<br><br><br>def people_with_secret(n: int, meetings: List[List[int]], firstPerson: int) - List[int]:<br>    secret_holders = set([firstPerson])<br>    meetings_by_time = defaultdict(list)<br><br>    for meeting in meetings:<br>        meetings_by_time[meeting[2]].append(tuple(meeting[:2]))<br>        <br>    for time in range(n):<br>        if time in meetings_by_time:<br>            for x, y in meetings_by_time[time]:<br>                if x in secret_holders or y in secret_holders:<br>                    secret_holders.add(x)<br>                    secret_holders.add(y)<br><br>    return list(secret_holders)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1944.txt
> def truncate_sentence(s, k):<br>    """There are `n` people standing in a queue, and they numbered from `0` to `n - 1` in left to right order. You are given an array `heights` of distinct integers where `heights[i]` represents the height of the `ith` person.<br><br>A person can see another person to their right in the queue if everybody in between is shorter than both of them. More formally, the `ith` person can see the `jth` person if `i < j` and `min(heights[i], heights[j])  max(heights[i+1], heights[i+2], ..., heights[j-1])`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `n` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of people the_ `ith` _person can see to their right in the queue_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: heights = \[10,6,8,5,11,9\]<br>Output: \[3,1,2,1,1,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>Person 0 can see person 1, 2, and 4.<br>Person 1 can see person 2.<br>Person 2 can see person 3 and 4.<br>Person 3 can see person 4.<br>Person 4 can see person 5.<br>Person 5 can see no one since nobody is to the right of them.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: heights = \[5,1,2,3,10\]<br>Output: \[4,1,1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == heights.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= heights[i] <= 105`<br>   All the values of `heights` are unique."""<br><br>    words = s.split(' ')<br>    return ' '.join(words[:k])

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2559.txt
> def is_vowel(c: str) - bool:<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array of strings `words` and a 2D array of integers `queries`.<br><br>Each query `queries[i] = [li, ri]` asks us to find the number of strings present in the range `li` to `ri` (both inclusive) of `words` that start and end with a vowel.<br><br>Return _an array_ `ans` _of size_ `queries.length`_, where_ `ans[i]` _is the answer to the_ `i`th _query_.<br><br>Note that the vowel letters are `'a'`, `'e'`, `'i'`, `'o'`, and `'u'`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "aba ", "bcb ", "ece ", "aa ", "e "\], queries = \[\[0,2\],\[1,4\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3,0\]<br>Explanation: The strings starting and ending with a vowel are  "aba ",  "ece ",  "aa " and  "e ".<br>The answer to the query \[0,2\] is 2 (strings  "aba " and  "ece ").<br>to query \[1,4\] is 3 (strings  "ece ",  "aa ",  "e ").<br>to query \[1,1\] is 0.<br>We return \[2,3,0\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: words = \[ "a ", "e ", "i "\], queries = \[\[0,2\],\[0,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output: \[3,2,1\]<br>Explanation: Every string satisfies the conditions, so we return \[3,2,1\].<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= words.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= words[i].length <= 40`<br>   `words[i]` consists only of lowercase English letters.<br>   `sum(words[i].length) <= 3  105`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= li <= ri < words.length`"""<br><br>    return c in "aeiou"<br><br>def count_vowel_strings(words: List[str], queries: List[List[int]]) - List[int]:<br>    ans = []<br>    for query in queries:<br>        count = 0<br>        for i in range(query[0], query[1] + 1):<br>            if is_vowel(words[i][0]) and is_vowel(words[i][-1]):<br>                count += 1<br>        ans.append(count)<br>    return ans


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_300.txt
> def lengthOfLIS(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums`, return _the length of the longest strictly increasing_ _subsequence_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[10,9,2,5,3,7,101,18\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: The longest increasing subsequence is \[2,3,7,101\], therefore the length is 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,1,0,3,2,3\]<br>Output: 4<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 2500`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br><br>Follow up: Can you come up with an algorithm that runs in `O(n log(n))` time complexity?"""<br><br>    dp = [1]  len(nums)<br>    max_length = 1<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        for j in range(i):<br>            if nums[i]  nums[j]:<br>                dp[i] = max(dp[i], dp[j] + 1)<br>        max_length = max(max_length, dp[i])<br>    return max_length
