# Query `9`

## Original Question

*Given an array of integers `citations` where `citations[i]` is the number of citations a researcher received for their `ith` paper, return _the researcher's h-index_.

According to the [definition of h-index on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): The h-index is defined as the maximum value of `h` such that the given researcher has published at least `h` papers that have each been cited at least `h` times.

Example 1:

Input: citations = \[3,0,6,1,5\]
Output: 3
Explanation: \[3,0,6,1,5\] means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively.
Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, their h-index is 3.

Example 2:

Input: citations = \[1,3,1\]
Output: 1

Constraints:

   `n == citations.length`
   `1 <= n <= 5000`
   `0 <= citations[i] <= 1000`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_275.txt
> def hIndex(citations: List[int]) - int:<br>    """Given an array of integers `citations` where `citations[i]` is the number of citations a researcher received for their `ith` paper and `citations` is sorted in ascending order, return _the researcher's h-index_.<br><br>According to the [definition of h-index on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): The h-index is defined as the maximum value of `h` such that the given researcher has published at least `h` papers that have each been cited at least `h` times.<br><br>You must write an algorithm that runs in logarithmic time.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: citations = \[0,1,3,5,6\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: \[0,1,3,5,6\] means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 0, 1, 3, 5, 6 citations respectively.<br>Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, their h-index is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: citations = \[1,2,100\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == citations.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= citations[i] <= 1000`<br>   `citations` is sorted in ascending order."""<br><br>    n = len(citations)<br>    left, right = 0, n - 1<br><br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if citations[mid] == n - mid:<br>            return n - mid<br>        elif citations[mid] < n - mid:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br><br>    return n - left

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2281.txt
> mod = 1000000007<br>    """As the ruler of a kingdom, you have an army of wizards at your command.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed integer array `strength`, where `strength[i]` denotes the strength of the `ith` wizard. For a contiguous group of wizards (i.e. the wizards' strengths form a subarray of `strength`), the total strength is defined as the product of the following two values:<br><br>   The strength of the weakest wizard in the group.<br>   The total of all the individual strengths of the wizards in the group.<br><br>Return _the sum of the total strengths of all contiguous groups of wizards_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>A subarray is a contiguous non-empty sequence of elements within an array.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: strength = \[1,3,1,2\]<br>Output: 44<br>Explanation: The following are all the contiguous groups of wizards:<br>- \[1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1\]) \ sum(\[1\]) = 1 \ 1 = 1<br>- \[3\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3\]) \ sum(\[3\]) = 3 \ 3 = 9<br>- \[1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1\]) \ sum(\[1\]) = 1 \ 1 = 1<br>- \[2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[2\]) \ sum(\[2\]) = 2 \ 2 = 4<br>- \[1,3\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3\]) \ sum(\[1,3\]) = 1 \ 4 = 4<br>- \[3,1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3,1\]) \ sum(\[3,1\]) = 1 \ 4 = 4<br>- \[1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,2\]) \ sum(\[1,2\]) = 1 \ 3 = 3<br>- \[1,3,1\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3,1\]) \ sum(\[1,3,1\]) = 1 \ 5 = 5<br>- \[3,1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[3,1,2\]) \ sum(\[3,1,2\]) = 1 \ 6 = 6<br>- \[1,3,1,2\] from \[1,3,1,2\] has a total strength of min(\[1,3,1,2\]) \ sum(\[1,3,1,2\]) = 1 \ 7 = 7<br>The sum of all the total strengths is 1 + 9 + 1 + 4 + 4 + 4 + 3 + 5 + 6 + 7 = 44.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: strength = \[5,4,6\]<br>Output: 213<br>Explanation: The following are all the contiguous groups of wizards: <br>- \[5\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5\]) \ sum(\[5\]) = 5 \ 5 = 25<br>- \[4\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[4\]) \ sum(\[4\]) = 4 \ 4 = 16<br>- \[6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[6\]) \ sum(\[6\]) = 6 \ 6 = 36<br>- \[5,4\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5,4\]) \ sum(\[5,4\]) = 4 \ 9 = 36<br>- \[4,6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[4,6\]) \ sum(\[4,6\]) = 4 \ 10 = 40<br>- \[5,4,6\] from \[5,4,6\] has a total strength of min(\[5,4,6\]) \ sum(\[5,4,6\]) = 4 \ 15 = 60<br>The sum of all the total strengths is 25 + 16 + 36 + 36 + 40 + 60 = 213.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= strength.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= strength[i] <= 109`"""<br><br>def sum_of_strength(strength):<br>    res, strength_len = 0, len(strength)<br>    for i in range(strength_len):<br>        minimum = total = strength[i]<br>        for j in range(i, strength_len):<br>            minimum = min(minimum, strength[j])<br>            total += strength[j]<br>            res = (res + minimum  total % mod) % mod<br>    return res

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2391.txt
> def min_minutes(garbage: list[str], travel: list[int]) - int:<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array of strings `garbage` where `garbage[i]` represents the assortment of garbage at the `ith` house. `garbage[i]` consists only of the characters `'M'`, `'P'` and `'G'` representing one unit of metal, paper and glass garbage respectively. Picking up one unit of any type of garbage takes `1` minute.<br><br>You are also given a 0-indexed integer array `travel` where `travel[i]` is the number of minutes needed to go from house `i` to house `i + 1`.<br><br>There are three garbage trucks in the city, each responsible for picking up one type of garbage. Each garbage truck starts at house `0` and must visit each house in order; however, they do not need to visit every house.<br><br>Only one garbage truck may be used at any given moment. While one truck is driving or picking up garbage, the other two trucks cannot do anything.<br><br>Return _the minimum number of minutes needed to pick up all the garbage._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: garbage = \[ "G ", "P ", "GP ", "GG "\], travel = \[2,4,3\]<br>Output: 21<br>Explanation:<br>The paper garbage truck:<br>1. Travels from house 0 to house 1<br>2. Collects the paper garbage at house 1<br>3. Travels from house 1 to house 2<br>4. Collects the paper garbage at house 2<br>Altogether, it takes 8 minutes to pick up all the paper garbage.<br>The glass garbage truck:<br>1. Collects the glass garbage at house 0<br>2. Travels from house 0 to house 1<br>3. Travels from house 1 to house 2<br>4. Collects the glass garbage at house 2<br>5. Travels from house 2 to house 3<br>6. Collects the glass garbage at house 3<br>Altogether, it takes 13 minutes to pick up all the glass garbage.<br>Since there is no metal garbage, we do not need to consider the metal garbage truck.<br>Therefore, it takes a total of 8 + 13 = 21 minutes to collect all the garbage.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: garbage = \[ "MMM ", "PGM ", "GP "\], travel = \[3,10\]<br>Output: 37<br>Explanation:<br>The metal garbage truck takes 7 minutes to pick up all the metal garbage.<br>The paper garbage truck takes 15 minutes to pick up all the paper garbage.<br>The glass garbage truck takes 15 minutes to pick up all the glass garbage.<br>It takes a total of 7 + 15 + 15 = 37 minutes to collect all the garbage.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= garbage.length <= 105`<br>   `garbage[i]` consists of only the letters `'M'`, `'P'`, and `'G'`.<br>   `1 <= garbage[i].length <= 10`<br>   `travel.length == garbage.length - 1`<br>   `1 <= travel[i] <= 100`"""<br><br>    time_garbage = [0, 0, 0]<br>    time_travel = [0, 0, 0]<br><br>    for i, g in enumerate(garbage):<br>        m, p, g = g.count('M'), g.count('P'), g.count('G')<br>        time_garbage[0] += m<br>        time_garbage[1] += p<br>        time_garbage[2] += g<br>        if i < len(garbage) - 1:<br>            time_travel[0] += travel[i]<br>            time_travel[1] += travel[i]<br>            time_travel[2] += travel[i]<br>    <br>    return sum(time_garbage) + sum(time_travel)

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1298.txt
> def reverseParentheses(s: str) - str:<br>    """You have `n` boxes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given four arrays: `status`, `candies`, `keys`, and `containedBoxes` where:<br><br>   `status[i]` is `1` if the `ith` box is open and `0` if the `ith` box is closed,<br>   `candies[i]` is the number of candies in the `ith` box,<br>   `keys[i]` is a list of the labels of the boxes you can open after opening the `ith` box.<br>   `containedBoxes[i]` is a list of the boxes you found inside the `ith` box.<br><br>You are given an integer array `initialBoxes` that contains the labels of the boxes you initially have. You can take all the candies in any open box and you can use the keys in it to open new boxes and you also can use the boxes you find in it.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of candies you can get following the rules above_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: status = \[1,0,1,0\], candies = \[7,5,4,100\], keys = \[\[\],\[\],\[1\],\[\]\], containedBoxes = \[\[1,2\],\[3\],\[\],\[\]\], initialBoxes = \[0\]<br>Output: 16<br>Explanation: You will be initially given box 0. You will find 7 candies in it and boxes 1 and 2.<br>Box 1 is closed and you do not have a key for it so you will open box 2. You will find 4 candies and a key to box 1 in box 2.<br>In box 1, you will find 5 candies and box 3 but you will not find a key to box 3 so box 3 will remain closed.<br>Total number of candies collected = 7 + 4 + 5 = 16 candy.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: status = \[1,0,0,0,0,0\], candies = \[1,1,1,1,1,1\], keys = \[\[1,2,3,4,5\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\]\], containedBoxes = \[\[1,2,3,4,5\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\],\[\]\], initialBoxes = \[0\]<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: You have initially box 0. Opening it you can find boxes 1,2,3,4 and 5 and their keys.<br>The total number of candies will be 6.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == status.length == candies.length == keys.length == containedBoxes.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `status[i]` is either `0` or `1`.<br>   `1 <= candies[i] <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= keys[i].length <= n`<br>   `0 <= keys[i][j] < n`<br>   All values of `keys[i]` are unique.<br>   `0 <= containedBoxes[i].length <= n`<br>   `0 <= containedBoxes[i][j] < n`<br>   All values of `containedBoxes[i]` are unique.<br>   Each box is contained in one box at most.<br>   `0 <= initialBoxes.length <= n`<br>   `0 <= initialBoxes[i] < n`"""<br><br>    st = []<br>    result = []<br><br>    for c in s:<br>        if c != ')':<br>            st.append(c)<br>        else:<br>            temp = []<br>            while st and st[-1] != '(':<br>                temp.append(st.pop())<br>            if st: st.pop()  # Remove '('<br>            st.extend(temp)<br><br>    result = "".join(st)<br>    return result

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1335.txt
> def max_candies(candies, k):<br>    """You want to schedule a list of jobs in `d` days. Jobs are dependent (i.e To work on the `ith` job, you have to finish all the jobs `j` where `0 <= j < i`).<br><br>You have to finish at least one task every day. The difficulty of a job schedule is the sum of difficulties of each day of the `d` days. The difficulty of a day is the maximum difficulty of a job done on that day.<br><br>You are given an integer array `jobDifficulty` and an integer `d`. The difficulty of the `ith` job is `jobDifficulty[i]`.<br><br>Return _the minimum difficulty of a job schedule_. If you cannot find a schedule for the jobs return `-1`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[6,5,4,3,2,1\], d = 2<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation: First day you can finish the first 5 jobs, total difficulty = 6.<br>Second day you can finish the last job, total difficulty = 1.<br>The difficulty of the schedule = 6 + 1 = 7 <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[9,9,9\], d = 4<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: If you finish a job per day you will still have a free day. you cannot find a schedule for the given jobs.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: jobDifficulty = \[1,1,1\], d = 3<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The schedule is one job per day. total difficulty will be 3.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= jobDifficulty.length <= 300`<br>   `0 <= jobDifficulty[i] <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= d <= 10`"""<br><br>    left, right = 1, max(candies)<br>    <br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        count = sum(candy // mid for candy in candies)<br>        if count = k:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br>    return right


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_275.txt
> def hIndex(citations: List[int]) - int:<br>    """Given an array of integers `citations` where `citations[i]` is the number of citations a researcher received for their `ith` paper and `citations` is sorted in ascending order, return _the researcher's h-index_.<br><br>According to the [definition of h-index on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): The h-index is defined as the maximum value of `h` such that the given researcher has published at least `h` papers that have each been cited at least `h` times.<br><br>You must write an algorithm that runs in logarithmic time.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: citations = \[0,1,3,5,6\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: \[0,1,3,5,6\] means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 0, 1, 3, 5, 6 citations respectively.<br>Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, their h-index is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: citations = \[1,2,100\]<br>Output: 2<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == citations.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= citations[i] <= 1000`<br>   `citations` is sorted in ascending order."""<br><br>    n = len(citations)<br>    left, right = 0, n - 1<br><br>    while left <= right:<br>        mid = left + (right - left) // 2<br>        if citations[mid] == n - mid:<br>            return n - mid<br>        elif citations[mid] < n - mid:<br>            left = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            right = mid - 1<br><br>    return n - left
