# Query `91`

## Original Question

*You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums`, where `nums[i]` represents the score of the `ith` student. You are also given an integer `k`.

Pick the scores of any `k` students from the array so that the difference between the highest and the lowest of the `k` scores is minimized.

Return _the minimum possible difference_.

Example 1:

Input: nums = \[90\], k = 1
Output: 0
Explanation: There is one way to pick score(s) of one student:
- \[90\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 90 - 90 = 0.
The minimum possible difference is 0.

Example 2:

Input: nums = \[9,4,1,7\], k = 2
Output: 2
Explanation: There are six ways to pick score(s) of two students:
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 4 = 5.
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 1 = 8.
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 7 = 2.
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 4 - 1 = 3.
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 7 - 4 = 3.
- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 7 - 1 = 6.
The minimum possible difference is 2.

Constraints:

   `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 1000`
   `0 <= nums[i] <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0087
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2035.txt
> def countSubIslands(grid1, grid2):<br>    """You are given an integer array `nums` of `2  n` integers. You need to partition `nums` into two arrays of length `n` to minimize the absolute difference of the sums of the arrays. To partition `nums`, put each element of `nums` into one of the two arrays.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible absolute difference_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,9,7,3\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: One optimal partition is: \[3,9\] and \[7,3\].<br>The absolute difference between the sums of the arrays is abs((3 + 9) - (7 + 3)) = 2.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[-36,36\]<br>Output: 72<br>Explanation: One optimal partition is: \[-36\] and \[36\].<br>The absolute difference between the sums of the arrays is abs((-36) - (36)) = 72.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,-1,0,4,-2,-9\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: One optimal partition is: \[2,4,-9\] and \[-1,0,-2\].<br>The absolute difference between the sums of the arrays is abs((2 + 4 + -9) - (-1 + 0 + -2)) = 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 15`<br>   `nums.length == 2  n`<br>   `-107 <= nums[i] <= 107`"""<br><br>    def dfs(i, j):<br>        if i < 0 or i = len(grid1) or j < 0 or j = len(grid1[0]) or grid2[i][j] == 0:<br>            return True<br><br>        grid2[i][j] = 0<br><br>        isSubIsland = grid1[i][j] == 1<br>        isSubIsland &= dfs(i + 1, j)<br>        isSubIsland &= dfs(i - 1, j)<br>        isSubIsland &= dfs(i, j + 1)<br>        isSubIsland &= dfs(i, j - 1)<br><br>        return isSubIsland<br><br>    count = 0<br><br>    for i in range(len(grid1)):<br>        for j in range(len(grid1[0])):<br>            if grid2[i][j] == 1 and dfs(i, j):<br>                count += 1<br><br>    return count

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2560.txt
> def minimumCapability(nums, k):<br>    """There are several consecutive houses along a street, each of which has some money inside. There is also a robber, who wants to steal money from the homes, but he refuses to steal from adjacent homes.<br><br>The capability of the robber is the maximum amount of money he steals from one house of all the houses he robbed.<br><br>You are given an integer array `nums` representing how much money is stashed in each house. More formally, the `ith` house from the left has `nums[i]` dollars.<br><br>You are also given an integer `k`, representing the minimum number of houses the robber will steal from. It is always possible to steal at least `k` houses.<br><br>Return _the minimum capability of the robber out of all the possible ways to steal at least_ `k` _houses_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,3,5,9\], k = 2<br>Output: 5<br>Explanation: <br>There are three ways to rob at least 2 houses:<br>- Rob the houses at indices 0 and 2. Capability is max(nums\[0\], nums\[2\]) = 5.<br>- Rob the houses at indices 0 and 3. Capability is max(nums\[0\], nums\[3\]) = 9.<br>- Rob the houses at indices 1 and 3. Capability is max(nums\[1\], nums\[3\]) = 9.<br>Therefore, we return min(5, 9, 9) = 5.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[2,7,9,3,1\], k = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are 7 ways to rob the houses. The way which leads to minimum capability is to rob the house at index 0 and 4. Return max(nums\[0\], nums\[4\]) = 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 109`<br>   `1 <= k <= (nums.length + 1)/2`"""<br><br>    n, l, r = len(nums), 1, 109<br>    while l < r:<br>        mid = l + (r - l) // 2<br>        i, cnt = 0, 0<br>        for j in range(n):<br>            if nums[j] <= mid:<br>                cnt += 1<br>                i = j + 2<br>                while i + 1 < n and (i == j + 1 or nums[i]  mid):<br>                    i += 1<br>        if cnt < k:<br>            l = mid + 1<br>        else:<br>            r = mid<br>    return l

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1770.txt
> def min_deletions(s):<br>    """You are given two 0-indexed integer arrays `nums` and `multipliers` of size `n` and `m` respectively, where `n = m`.<br><br>You begin with a score of `0`. You want to perform exactly `m` operations. On the `ith` operation (0-indexed) you will:<br><br>   Choose one integer `x` from either the start or the end of the array `nums`.<br>   Add `multipliers[i]  x` to your score.<br>       Note that `multipliers[0]` corresponds to the first operation, `multipliers[1]` to the second operation, and so on.<br>   Remove `x` from `nums`.<br><br>Return _the maximum score after performing_ `m` _operations._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,2,3\], multipliers = \[3,2,1\]<br>Output: 14<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is as follows:<br>- Choose from the end, \[1,2,3\], adding 3 \ 3 = 9 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[1,2\], adding 2 \ 2 = 4 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[1\], adding 1 \ 1 = 1 to the score.<br>The total score is 9 + 4 + 1 = 14.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[-5,-3,-3,-2,7,1\], multipliers = \[-10,-5,3,4,6\]<br>Output: 102<br>Explanation: An optimal solution is as follows:<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-5,-3,-3,-2,7,1\], adding -5 \ -10 = 50 to the score.<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-3,-3,-2,7,1\], adding -3 \ -5 = 15 to the score.<br>- Choose from the start, \[\-3,-2,7,1\], adding -3 \ 3 = -9 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[-2,7,1\], adding 1 \ 4 = 4 to the score.<br>- Choose from the end, \[-2,7\], adding 7 \ 6 = 42 to the score. <br>The total score is 50 + 15 - 9 + 4 + 42 = 102.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `m == multipliers.length`<br>   `1 <= m <= 300`<br>   `m <= n <= 105`<br>   `-1000 <= nums[i], multipliers[i] <= 1000`"""<br><br>    freq = collections.Counter(s)<br>    used = set()<br>    deletions = 0<br><br>    for count in freq.values():<br>        while count in used and count  0:<br>            deletions += 1<br>            count -= 1<br>        used.add(count)<br><br>    return deletions

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2322.txt
> def dfs(node, parent, xor_values, tree):<br>    """There is an undirected connected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and `n - 1` edges.<br><br>You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` of length `n` where `nums[i]` represents the value of the `ith` node. You are also given a 2D integer array `edges` of length `n - 1` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>Remove two distinct edges of the tree to form three connected components. For a pair of removed edges, the following steps are defined:<br><br>1.  Get the XOR of all the values of the nodes for each of the three components respectively.<br>2.  The difference between the largest XOR value and the smallest XOR value is the score of the pair.<br><br>   For example, say the three components have the node values: `[4,5,7]`, `[1,9]`, and `[3,3,3]`. The three XOR values are `4 ^ 5 ^ 7 = 6`, `1 ^ 9 = 8`, and `3 ^ 3 ^ 3 = 3`. The largest XOR value is `8` and the smallest XOR value is `3`. The score is then `8 - 3 = 5`.<br><br>Return _the minimum score of any possible pair of edge removals on the given tree_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,5,5,4,11\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[1,3\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a way to make a pair of removals.<br>- The 1st component has nodes \[1,3,4\] with values \[5,4,11\]. Its XOR value is 5 ^ 4 ^ 11 = 10.<br>- The 2nd component has node \[0\] with value \[1\]. Its XOR value is 1 = 1.<br>- The 3rd component has node \[2\] with value \[5\]. Its XOR value is 5 = 5.<br>The score is the difference between the largest and smallest XOR value which is 10 - 1 = 9.<br>It can be shown that no other pair of removals will obtain a smaller score than 9.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,5,2,4,4,2\], edges = \[\[0,1\],\[1,2\],\[5,2\],\[4,3\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows a way to make a pair of removals.<br>- The 1st component has nodes \[3,4\] with values \[4,4\]. Its XOR value is 4 ^ 4 = 0.<br>- The 2nd component has nodes \[1,0\] with values \[5,5\]. Its XOR value is 5 ^ 5 = 0.<br>- The 3rd component has nodes \[2,5\] with values \[2,2\]. Its XOR value is 2 ^ 2 = 0.<br>The score is the difference between the largest and smallest XOR value which is 0 - 0 = 0.<br>We cannot obtain a smaller score than 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `3 <= n <= 1000`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 108`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   `edges` represents a valid tree."""<br><br>    xor_value = xor_values[node]<br>    for child in tree[node]:<br>        if child != parent:<br>            xor_value ^= dfs(child, node, xor_values, tree)<br>    return xor_value<br><br><br>def minimumScore(nums, edges):<br>    n = len(nums)<br>    tree = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br>    <br>    for edge in edges:<br>        tree[edge[0]].append(edge[1])<br>        tree[edge[1]].append(edge[0])<br>    <br>    xor_values = [dfs(i, -1, nums, tree) for i in range(n)]<br>    <br>    ans = float('inf')<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        for j in range(i + 1, n):<br>            xor1 = xor_values[i]<br>            xor2 = xor_values[j] ^ nums[i]<br>            xor3 = nums[i] ^ nums[j]<br>            max_xor = max(xor1, xor2, xor3)<br>            min_xor = min(xor1, xor2, xor3)<br>            ans = min(ans, max_xor - min_xor)<br>    <br>    return ans

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2163.txt
> def kth_distinct_string(arr, k):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` consisting of `3  n` elements.<br><br>You are allowed to remove any subsequence of elements of size exactly `n` from `nums`. The remaining `2  n` elements will be divided into two equal parts:<br><br>   The first `n` elements belonging to the first part and their sum is `sumfirst`.<br>   The next `n` elements belonging to the second part and their sum is `sumsecond`.<br><br>The difference in sums of the two parts is denoted as `sumfirst - sumsecond`.<br><br>   For example, if `sumfirst = 3` and `sumsecond = 2`, their difference is `1`.<br>   Similarly, if `sumfirst = 2` and `sumsecond = 3`, their difference is `-1`.<br><br>Return _the minimum difference possible between the sums of the two parts after the removal of_ `n` _elements_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[3,1,2\]<br>Output: -1<br>Explanation: Here, nums has 3 elements, so n = 1. <br>Thus we have to remove 1 element from nums and divide the array into two equal parts.<br>- If we remove nums\[0\] = 3, the array will be \[1,2\]. The difference in sums of the two parts will be 1 - 2 = -1.<br>- If we remove nums\[1\] = 1, the array will be \[3,2\]. The difference in sums of the two parts will be 3 - 2 = 1.<br>- If we remove nums\[2\] = 2, the array will be \[3,1\]. The difference in sums of the two parts will be 3 - 1 = 2.<br>The minimum difference between sums of the two parts is min(-1,1,2) = -1. <br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,9,5,8,1,3\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: Here n = 2. So we must remove 2 elements and divide the remaining array into two parts containing two elements each.<br>If we remove nums\[2\] = 5 and nums\[3\] = 8, the resultant array will be \[7,9,1,3\]. The difference in sums will be (7+9) - (1+3) = 12.<br>To obtain the minimum difference, we should remove nums\[1\] = 9 and nums\[4\] = 1. The resultant array becomes \[7,5,8,3\]. The difference in sums of the two parts is (7+5) - (8+3) = 1.<br>It can be shown that it is not possible to obtain a difference smaller than 1.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `nums.length == 3  n`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    frequency = {}<br>    for s in arr:<br>        frequency[s] = frequency.get(s, 0) + 1<br><br>    count = 0<br>    for s in arr:<br>        if frequency[s] == 1:<br>            count += 1<br>            if count == k:<br>                return s<br><br>    return ""


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_561.txt
> def array_pair_sum(nums):<br>    """Given an integer array `nums` of `2n` integers, group these integers into `n` pairs `(a1, b1), (a2, b2), ..., (an, bn)` such that the sum of `min(ai, bi)` for all `i` is maximized. Return _the maximized sum_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[1,4,3,2\]<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: All possible pairings (ignoring the ordering of elements) are:<br>1. (1, 4), (2, 3) - min(1, 4) + min(2, 3) = 1 + 2 = 3<br>2. (1, 3), (2, 4) - min(1, 3) + min(2, 4) = 1 + 2 = 3<br>3. (1, 2), (3, 4) - min(1, 2) + min(3, 4) = 1 + 3 = 4<br>So the maximum possible sum is 4.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[6,2,6,5,1,2\]<br>Output: 9<br>Explanation: The optimal pairing is (2, 1), (2, 5), (6, 6). min(2, 1) + min(2, 5) + min(6, 6) = 1 + 2 + 6 = 9.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `nums.length == 2  n`<br>   `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`"""<br><br>    nums.sort()<br>    return sum(nums[::2])
