# Query `93`

## Original Question

*You are playing a game that contains multiple characters, and each of the characters has two main properties: attack and defense. You are given a 2D integer array `properties` where `properties[i] = [attacki, defensei]` represents the properties of the `ith` character in the game.

A character is said to be weak if any other character has both attack and defense levels strictly greater than this character's attack and defense levels. More formally, a character `i` is said to be weak if there exists another character `j` where `attackj > attacki` and `defensej > defensei`.

Return _the number of weak characters_.

Example 1:

Input: properties = \[\[5,5\],\[6,3\],\[3,6\]\]
Output: 0
Explanation: No character has strictly greater attack and defense than the other.

Example 2:

Input: properties = \[\[2,2\],\[3,3\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation: The first character is weak because the second character has a strictly greater attack and defense.

Example 3:

Input: properties = \[\[1,5\],\[10,4\],\[4,3\]\]
Output: 1
Explanation: The third character is weak because the second character has a strictly greater attack and defense.

Constraints:

   `2 <= properties.length <= 105`
   `properties[i].length == 2`
   `1 <= attacki, defensei <= 105`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0244
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.1854
ndcg_cut_100: 0.1854
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0244
map_cut_100: 0.0244
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2570.txt
> def merge_nums(nums1, nums2):<br>    """You are given two 2D integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2.`<br><br>   `nums1[i] = [idi, vali]` indicate that the number with the id `idi` has a value equal to `vali`.<br>   `nums2[i] = [idi, vali]` indicate that the number with the id `idi` has a value equal to `vali`.<br><br>Each array contains unique ids and is sorted in ascending order by id.<br><br>Merge the two arrays into one array that is sorted in ascending order by id, respecting the following conditions:<br><br>   Only ids that appear in at least one of the two arrays should be included in the resulting array.<br>   Each id should be included only once and its value should be the sum of the values of this id in the two arrays. If the id does not exist in one of the two arrays then its value in that array is considered to be `0`.<br><br>Return _the resulting array_. The returned array must be sorted in ascending order by id.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[4,5\]\], nums2 = \[\[1,4\],\[3,2\],\[4,1\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,6\],\[2,3\],\[3,2\],\[4,6\]\]<br>Explanation: The resulting array contains the following:<br>- id = 1, the value of this id is 2 + 4 = 6.<br>- id = 2, the value of this id is 3.<br>- id = 3, the value of this id is 2.<br>- id = 4, the value of this id is 5 + 1 = 6.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums1 = \[\[2,4\],\[3,6\],\[5,5\]\], nums2 = \[\[1,3\],\[4,3\]\]<br>Output: \[\[1,3\],\[2,4\],\[3,6\],\[4,3\],\[5,5\]\]<br>Explanation: There are no common ids, so we just include each id with its value in the resulting list.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums1.length, nums2.length <= 200`<br>   `nums1[i].length == nums2[j].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= idi, vali <= 1000`<br>   Both arrays contain unique ids.<br>   Both arrays are in strictly ascending order by id."""<br><br>    merged_map = {}<br>    merged = []<br><br>    for id_val_pair in nums1:<br>        id_, val_ = id_val_pair<br>        if id_ not in merged_map:<br>            merged_map[id_] = val_<br>        else:<br>            merged_map[id_] += val_<br><br>    for id_val_pair in nums2:<br>        id_, val_ = id_val_pair<br>        if id_ not in merged_map:<br>            merged_map[id_] = val_<br>        else:<br>            merged_map[id_] += val_<br><br>    for id_, val_ in merged_map.items():<br>        merged.append([id_, val_])<br>    <br>    return merged

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1222.txt
> def remove_covered_intervals(intervals):<br>    """On a 0-indexed `8 x 8` chessboard, there can be multiple black queens ad one white king.<br><br>You are given a 2D integer array `queens` where `queens[i] = [xQueeni, yQueeni]` represents the position of the `ith` black queen on the chessboard. You are also given an integer array `king` of length `2` where `king = [xKing, yKing]` represents the position of the white king.<br><br>Return _the coordinates of the black queens that can directly attack the king_. You may return the answer in any order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[4,0\],\[0,4\],\[3,3\],\[2,4\]\], king = \[0,0\]<br>Output: \[\[0,1\],\[1,0\],\[3,3\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: queens = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[3,5\],\[4,4\],\[4,5\]\], king = \[3,3\]<br>Output: \[\[2,2\],\[3,4\],\[4,4\]\]<br>Explanation: The diagram above shows the three queens that can directly attack the king and the three queens that cannot attack the king (i.e., marked with red dashes).<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= queens.length < 64`<br>   `queens[i].length == king.length == 2`<br>   `0 <= xQueeni, yQueeni, xKing, yKing < 8`<br>   All the given positions are unique."""<br><br>    intervals.sort(key=lambda x: (x[0], -x[1]))<br>    <br>    count = 0<br>    end = 0<br>    for i in intervals:<br>        if i[1]  end:<br>            count += 1<br>            end = i[1]<br>    return count

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2058.txt
> def get_concatenation(nums):<br>    """A critical point in a linked list is defined as either a local maxima or a local minima.<br><br>A node is a local maxima if the current node has a value strictly greater than the previous node and the next node.<br><br>A node is a local minima if the current node has a value strictly smaller than the previous node and the next node.<br><br>Note that a node can only be a local maxima/minima if there exists both a previous node and a next node.<br><br>Given a linked list `head`, return _an array of length 2 containing_ `[minDistance, maxDistance]` _where_ `minDistance` _is the minimum distance between any two distinct critical points and_ `maxDistance` _is the maximum distance between any two distinct critical points. If there are fewer than two critical points, return_ `[-1, -1]`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: head = \[3,1\]<br>Output: \[-1,-1\]<br>Explanation: There are no critical points in \[3,1\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: head = \[5,3,1,2,5,1,2\]<br>Output: \[1,3\]<br>Explanation: There are three critical points:<br>- \[5,3,1,2,5,1,2\]: The third node is a local minima because 1 is less than 3 and 2.<br>- \[5,3,1,2,5,1,2\]: The fifth node is a local maxima because 5 is greater than 2 and 1.<br>- \[5,3,1,2,5,1,2\]: The sixth node is a local minima because 1 is less than 5 and 2.<br>The minimum distance is between the fifth and the sixth node. minDistance = 6 - 5 = 1.<br>The maximum distance is between the third and the sixth node. maxDistance = 6 - 3 = 3.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: head = \[1,3,2,2,3,2,2,2,7\]<br>Output: \[3,3\]<br>Explanation: There are two critical points:<br>- \[1,3,2,2,3,2,2,2,7\]: The second node is a local maxima because 3 is greater than 1 and 2.<br>- \[1,3,2,2,3,2,2,2,7\]: The fifth node is a local maxima because 3 is greater than 2 and 2.<br>Both the minimum and maximum distances are between the second and the fifth node.<br>Thus, minDistance and maxDistance is 5 - 2 = 3.<br>Note that the last node is not considered a local maxima because it does not have a next node.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   The number of nodes in the list is in the range `[2, 105]`.<br>   `1 <= Node.val <= 105`"""<br><br>    n = len(nums)<br>    ans = [0]  (2  n)<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        ans[i] = nums[i]<br>        ans[i + n] = nums[i]<br>    return ans

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1707.txt
> def can_transform(s, t):<br>    """You are given an array `nums` consisting of non-negative integers. You are also given a `queries` array, where `queries[i] = [xi, mi]`.<br><br>The answer to the `ith` query is the maximum bitwise `XOR` value of `xi` and any element of `nums` that does not exceed `mi`. In other words, the answer is `max(nums[j] XOR xi)` for all `j` such that `nums[j] <= mi`. If all elements in `nums` are larger than `mi`, then the answer is `-1`.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `answer` _where_ `answer.length == queries.length` _and_ `answer[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[0,1,2,3,4\], queries = \[\[3,1\],\[1,3\],\[5,6\]\]<br>Output: \[3,3,7\]<br>Explanation:<br>1) 0 and 1 are the only two integers not greater than 1. 0 XOR 3 = 3 and 1 XOR 3 = 2. The larger of the two is 3.<br>2) 1 XOR 2 = 3.<br>3) 5 XOR 2 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[5,2,4,6,6,3\], queries = \[\[12,4\],\[8,1\],\[6,3\]\]<br>Output: \[15,-1,5\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= nums.length, queries.length <= 105`<br>   `queries[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= nums[j], xi, mi <= 109`"""<br><br>    i, j = 0, 0<br>    while i < len(s) and j < len(t):<br>        if s[i] == t[j]:<br>            i += 1<br>            j += 1<br>        else:<br>            i += 1<br>    return j == len(t)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1275.txt
> def validateBinaryTreeNodes(n, leftChild, rightChild):<br>    """Tic-tac-toe is played by two players `A` and `B` on a `3 x 3` grid. The rules of Tic-Tac-Toe are:<br><br>   Players take turns placing characters into empty squares `' '`.<br>   The first player `A` always places `'X'` characters, while the second player `B` always places `'O'` characters.<br>   `'X'` and `'O'` characters are always placed into empty squares, never on filled ones.<br>   The game ends when there are three of the same (non-empty) character filling any row, column, or diagonal.<br>   The game also ends if all squares are non-empty.<br>   No more moves can be played if the game is over.<br><br>Given a 2D integer array `moves` where `moves[i] = [rowi, coli]` indicates that the `ith` move will be played on `grid[rowi][coli]`. return _the winner of the game if it exists_ (`A` or `B`). In case the game ends in a draw return `"Draw "`. If there are still movements to play return `"Pending "`.<br><br>You can assume that `moves` is valid (i.e., it follows the rules of Tic-Tac-Toe), the grid is initially empty, and `A` will play first.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[2,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,1\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "A "<br>Explanation: A wins, they always play first.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[1,0\],\[2,0\]\]<br>Output:  "B "<br>Explanation: B wins.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: moves = \[\[0,0\],\[1,1\],\[2,0\],\[1,0\],\[1,2\],\[2,1\],\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,2\]\]<br>Output:  "Draw "<br>Explanation: The game ends in a draw since there are no moves to make.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= moves.length <= 9`<br>   `moves[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= rowi, coli <= 2`<br>   There are no repeated elements on `moves`.<br>   `moves` follow the rules of tic tac toe."""<br><br>    parent = [-1]  n<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if leftChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[leftChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[leftChild[i]] = i<br>        if rightChild[i] != -1:<br>            if parent[rightChild[i]] != -1:<br>                return False<br>            parent[rightChild[i]] = i<br>    <br>    root = -1<br>    for i in range(n):<br>        if parent[i] == -1:<br>            if root != -1:<br>                return False<br>            root = i<br><br>    return root != -1


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 40, leetcode/leetcode_354.txt
> from bisect import bisect_left<br>    """You are given a 2D array of integers `envelopes` where `envelopes[i] = [wi, hi]` represents the width and the height of an envelope.<br><br>One envelope can fit into another if and only if both the width and height of one envelope are greater than the other envelope's width and height.<br><br>Return _the maximum number of envelopes you can Russian doll (i.e., put one inside the other)_.<br><br>Note: You cannot rotate an envelope.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: envelopes = \[\[5,4\],\[6,4\],\[6,7\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: The maximum number of envelopes you can Russian doll is `3` (\[2,3\] = \[5,4\] = \[6,7\]).<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: envelopes = \[\[1,1\],\[1,1\],\[1,1\]\]<br>Output: 1<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= envelopes.length <= 105`<br>   `envelopes[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= wi, hi <= 105`"""<br><br><br>def max_envelopes(envelopes):<br>    envelopes.sort(key=lambda x: (x[0], -x[1]))<br>    dp = []<br>    <br>    for _, h in envelopes:<br>        idx = bisect_left(dp, h)<br>        if idx == len(dp):<br>            dp.append(h)<br>        else:<br>            dp[idx] = h<br><br>    return len(dp)
