# Query `95`

## Original Question

*You have observations of `n + m` 6-sided dice rolls with each face numbered from `1` to `6`. `n` of the observations went missing, and you only have the observations of `m` rolls. Fortunately, you have also calculated the average value of the `n + m` rolls.

You are given an integer array `rolls` of length `m` where `rolls[i]` is the value of the `ith` observation. You are also given the two integers `mean` and `n`.

Return _an array of length_ `n` _containing the missing observations such that the average value of the_ `n + m` _rolls is exactly_ `mean`. If there are multiple valid answers, return _any of them_. If no such array exists, return _an empty array_.

The average value of a set of `k` numbers is the sum of the numbers divided by `k`.

Note that `mean` is an integer, so the sum of the `n + m` rolls should be divisible by `n + m`.

Example 1:

Input: rolls = \[3,2,4,3\], mean = 4, n = 2
Output: \[6,6\]
Explanation: The mean of all n + m rolls is (3 + 2 + 4 + 3 + 6 + 6) / 6 = 4.

Example 2:

Input: rolls = \[1,5,6\], mean = 3, n = 4
Output: \[2,3,2,2\]
Explanation: The mean of all n + m rolls is (1 + 5 + 6 + 2 + 3 + 2 + 2) / 7 = 3.

Example 3:

Input: rolls = \[1,2,3,4\], mean = 6, n = 4
Output: \[\]
Explanation: It is impossible for the mean to be 6 no matter what the 4 missing rolls are.

Constraints:

   `m == rolls.length`
   `1 <= n, m <= 105`
   `1 <= rolls[i], mean <= 6`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.5000
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.5000
recall_10: 0.5000
recall_25: 0.5000
recall_50: 0.5000
recall_100: 0.5000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_10: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_25: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_50: 0.3869
ndcg_cut_100: 0.3869
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.2500
map_cut_10: 0.2500
map_cut_25: 0.2500
map_cut_50: 0.2500
map_cut_100: 0.2500
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2350.txt
> def shortest_unrollable_sequence(rolls, k):<br>    """You are given an integer array `rolls` of length `n` and an integer `k`. You roll a `k` sided dice numbered from `1` to `k`, `n` times, where the result of the `ith` roll is `rolls[i]`.<br><br>Return _the length of the shortest sequence of rolls that cannot be taken from_ `rolls`.<br><br>A sequence of rolls of length `len` is the result of rolling a `k` sided dice `len` times.<br><br>Note that the sequence taken does not have to be consecutive as long as it is in order.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: rolls = \[4,2,1,2,3,3,2,4,1\], k = 4<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: Every sequence of rolls of length 1, \[1\], \[2\], \[3\], \[4\], can be taken from rolls.<br>Every sequence of rolls of length 2, \[1, 1\], \[1, 2\], ..., \[4, 4\], can be taken from rolls.<br>The sequence \[1, 4, 2\] cannot be taken from rolls, so we return 3.<br>Note that there are other sequences that cannot be taken from rolls.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: rolls = \[1,1,2,2\], k = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: Every sequence of rolls of length 1, \[1\], \[2\], can be taken from rolls.<br>The sequence \[2, 1\] cannot be taken from rolls, so we return 2.<br>Note that there are other sequences that cannot be taken from rolls but \[2, 1\] is the shortest.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: rolls = \[1,1,3,2,2,2,3,3\], k = 4<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: The sequence \[4\] cannot be taken from rolls, so we return 1.<br>Note that there are other sequences that cannot be taken from rolls but \[4\] is the shortest.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == rolls.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= rolls[i] <= k <= 105`"""<br><br>    count = [0]  (k + 1)<br>    for roll in rolls:<br>        count[roll] += 1<br>    <br>    len_ = 1<br>    while True:<br>        max_subsequences = 1<br>        for i in range(1, k + 1):<br>            max_subsequences = count[i] + (1 if len_ == 1 else 0)<br>        <br>        if max_subsequences < len_  len(rolls):<br>            return len_<br>        <br>        len_ += 1

### DOC[2] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_1155.txt
> def numRollsToTarget(n, k, target):<br>    """You have `n` dice, and each die has `k` faces numbered from `1` to `k`.<br><br>Given three integers `n`, `k`, and `target`, return _the number of possible ways (out of the_ `kn` _total ways)_ _to roll the dice, so the sum of the face-up numbers equals_ `target`. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1, k = 6, target = 3<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You throw one die with 6 faces.<br>There is only one way to get a sum of 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, k = 6, target = 7<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: You throw two dice, each with 6 faces.<br>There are 6 ways to get a sum of 7: 1+6, 2+5, 3+4, 4+3, 5+2, 6+1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 30, k = 30, target = 500<br>Output: 222616187<br>Explanation: The answer must be returned modulo 109 + 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n, k <= 30`<br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`"""<br><br>    MOD = 1000000007<br>    dp = [[0 for _ in range(target + 1)] for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    dp[0][0] = 1<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i, target + 1):<br>            for d in range(1, k + 1):<br>                if j - d = 0:<br>                    dp[i][j] = (dp[i][j] + dp[i - 1][j - d]) % MOD<br>    return dp[n][target]

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2090.txt
> from heapq import heappush, heappop<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed array `nums` of `n` integers, and an integer `k`.<br><br>The k-radius average for a subarray of `nums` centered at some index `i` with the radius `k` is the average of all elements in `nums` between the indices `i - k` and `i + k` (inclusive). If there are less than `k` elements before or after the index `i`, then the k-radius average is `-1`.<br><br>Build and return _an array_ `avgs` _of length_ `n` _where_ `avgs[i]` _is the k-radius average for the subarray centered at index_ `i`.<br><br>The average of `x` elements is the sum of the `x` elements divided by `x`, using integer division. The integer division truncates toward zero, which means losing its fractional part.<br><br>   For example, the average of four elements `2`, `3`, `1`, and `5` is `(2 + 3 + 1 + 5) / 4 = 11 / 4 = 2.75`, which truncates to `2`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[7,4,3,9,1,8,5,2,6\], k = 3<br>Output: \[-1,-1,-1,5,4,4,-1,-1,-1\]<br>Explanation:<br>- avg\[0\], avg\[1\], and avg\[2\] are -1 because there are less than k elements before each index.<br>- The sum of the subarray centered at index 3 with radius 3 is: 7 + 4 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 5 = 37.<br>  Using integer division, avg\[3\] = 37 / 7 = 5.<br>- For the subarray centered at index 4, avg\[4\] = (4 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 5 + 2) / 7 = 4.<br>- For the subarray centered at index 5, avg\[5\] = (3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 5 + 2 + 6) / 7 = 4.<br>- avg\[6\], avg\[7\], and avg\[8\] are -1 because there are less than k elements after each index.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[100000\], k = 0<br>Output: \[100000\]<br>Explanation:<br>- The sum of the subarray centered at index 0 with radius 0 is: 100000.<br>  avg\[0\] = 100000 / 1 = 100000.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: nums = \[8\], k = 100000<br>Output: \[-1\]<br>Explanation: <br>- avg\[0\] is -1 because there are less than k elements before and after index 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == nums.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= nums[i], k <= 105`"""<br><br><br>MODULO = 1000000007<br><br>def countPaths(n, roads):<br>    adj_list = [[] for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for u, v, time in roads:<br>        adj_list[u].append((v, time))<br>        adj_list[v].append((u, time))<br><br>    dist = [float('inf')]  n<br>    dist[0] = 0<br>    count = [0]  n<br>    count[0] = 1<br>    pq = [(0, 0)]<br><br>    while pq:<br>        distance, node = heappop(pq)<br><br>        if distance  dist[node]:<br>            continue<br><br>        for next_node, edge_distance in adj_list[node]:<br>            if distance + edge_distance  dist[next_node]:<br>                continue<br><br>            if distance + edge_distance == dist[next_node]:<br>                count[next_node] = (count[next_node] + count[node]) % MODULO<br>            else:<br>                count[next_node] = count[node]<br>                dist[next_node] = distance + edge_distance<br>                heappush(pq, (dist[next_node], next_node))<br><br>    return count[n - 1]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1944.txt
> def truncate_sentence(s, k):<br>    """There are `n` people standing in a queue, and they numbered from `0` to `n - 1` in left to right order. You are given an array `heights` of distinct integers where `heights[i]` represents the height of the `ith` person.<br><br>A person can see another person to their right in the queue if everybody in between is shorter than both of them. More formally, the `ith` person can see the `jth` person if `i < j` and `min(heights[i], heights[j])  max(heights[i+1], heights[i+2], ..., heights[j-1])`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `answer` _of length_ `n` _where_ `answer[i]` _is the number of people the_ `ith` _person can see to their right in the queue_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: heights = \[10,6,8,5,11,9\]<br>Output: \[3,1,2,1,1,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>Person 0 can see person 1, 2, and 4.<br>Person 1 can see person 2.<br>Person 2 can see person 3 and 4.<br>Person 3 can see person 4.<br>Person 4 can see person 5.<br>Person 5 can see no one since nobody is to the right of them.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: heights = \[5,1,2,3,10\]<br>Output: \[4,1,1,1,0\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == heights.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= heights[i] <= 105`<br>   All the values of `heights` are unique."""<br><br>    words = s.split(' ')<br>    return ' '.join(words[:k])

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2300.txt
> def repeat_limited_string(s, repeat_limit):<br>    """You are given two positive integer arrays `spells` and `potions`, of length `n` and `m` respectively, where `spells[i]` represents the strength of the `ith` spell and `potions[j]` represents the strength of the `jth` potion.<br><br>You are also given an integer `success`. A spell and potion pair is considered successful if the product of their strengths is at least `success`.<br><br>Return _an integer array_ `pairs` _of length_ `n` _where_ `pairs[i]` _is the number of potions that will form a successful pair with the_ `ith` _spell._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: spells = \[5,1,3\], potions = \[1,2,3,4,5\], success = 7<br>Output: \[4,0,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>- 0th spell: 5 \ \[1,2,3,4,5\] = \[5,10,15,20,25\]. 4 pairs are successful.<br>- 1st spell: 1 \ \[1,2,3,4,5\] = \[1,2,3,4,5\]. 0 pairs are successful.<br>- 2nd spell: 3 \ \[1,2,3,4,5\] = \[3,6,9,12,15\]. 3 pairs are successful.<br>Thus, \[4,0,3\] is returned.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: spells = \[3,1,2\], potions = \[8,5,8\], success = 16<br>Output: \[2,0,2\]<br>Explanation:<br>- 0th spell: 3 \ \[8,5,8\] = \[24,15,24\]. 2 pairs are successful.<br>- 1st spell: 1 \ \[8,5,8\] = \[8,5,8\]. 0 pairs are successful. <br>- 2nd spell: 2 \ \[8,5,8\] = \[16,10,16\]. 2 pairs are successful. <br>Thus, \[2,0,2\] is returned.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == spells.length`<br>   `m == potions.length`<br>   `1 <= n, m <= 105`<br>   `1 <= spells[i], potions[i] <= 105`<br>   `1 <= success <= 1010`"""<br><br>    result = []<br>    sorted_s = sorted(s, reverse=True)<br>    <br>    for c in sorted_s:<br>        pos = result.count(c)<br>        <br>        if pos < repeat_limit:<br>            result.insert(pos, c)<br><br>    return "".join(result)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 1, leetcode/leetcode_1155.txt
> def numRollsToTarget(n, k, target):<br>    """You have `n` dice, and each die has `k` faces numbered from `1` to `k`.<br><br>Given three integers `n`, `k`, and `target`, return _the number of possible ways (out of the_ `kn` _total ways)_ _to roll the dice, so the sum of the face-up numbers equals_ `target`. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 1, k = 6, target = 3<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: You throw one die with 6 faces.<br>There is only one way to get a sum of 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, k = 6, target = 7<br>Output: 6<br>Explanation: You throw two dice, each with 6 faces.<br>There are 6 ways to get a sum of 7: 1+6, 2+5, 3+4, 4+3, 5+2, 6+1.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 30, k = 30, target = 500<br>Output: 222616187<br>Explanation: The answer must be returned modulo 109 + 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n, k <= 30`<br>   `1 <= target <= 1000`"""<br><br>    MOD = 1000000007<br>    dp = [[0 for _ in range(target + 1)] for _ in range(n + 1)]<br>    dp[0][0] = 1<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i, target + 1):<br>            for d in range(1, k + 1):<br>                if j - d = 0:<br>                    dp[i][j] = (dp[i][j] + dp[i - 1][j - d]) % MOD<br>    return dp[n][target]

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_1223.txt
> def areConnected(n, threshold, queries):<br>    """A die simulator generates a random number from `1` to `6` for each roll. You introduced a constraint to the generator such that it cannot roll the number `i` more than `rollMax[i]` (1-indexed) consecutive times.<br><br>Given an array of integers `rollMax` and an integer `n`, return _the number of distinct sequences that can be obtained with exact_ `n` _rolls_. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Two sequences are considered different if at least one element differs from each other.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,2,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 34<br>Explanation: There will be 2 rolls of die, if there are no constraints on the die, there are 6 \ 6 = 36 possible combinations. In this case, looking at rollMax array, the numbers 1 and 2 appear at most once consecutively, therefore sequences (1,1) and (2,2) cannot occur, so the final answer is 36-2 = 34.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, rollMax = \[1,1,1,1,1,1\]<br>Output: 30<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, rollMax = \[1,1,1,2,2,3\]<br>Output: 181<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 5000`<br>   `rollMax.length == 6`<br>   `1 <= rollMax[i] <= 15`"""<br><br>    answer = [False]  len(queries)<br>    parent = list(range(n + 1))<br>    rank = [0]  (n + 1)<br><br>    def find(x):<br>        if parent[x] != x:<br>            parent[x] = find(parent[x])<br>        return parent[x]<br><br>    def unite(x, y):<br>        rootx = find(x)<br>        rooty = find(y)<br>        if rootx != rooty:<br>            if rank[rootx]  rank[rooty]:<br>                rootx, rooty = rooty, rootx<br>            parent[rootx] = rooty<br>            if rank[rootx] == rank[rooty]:<br>                rank[rooty] += 1<br><br>    for i in range(threshold + 1, n + 1):<br>        for j in range(i  2, n + 1, i):<br>            unite(i, j)<br><br>    for i, query in enumerate(queries):<br>        answer[i] = find(query[0]) == find(query[1])<br><br>    return answer
