# Query `97`

## Original Question

*There is a binary tree rooted at `0` consisting of `n` nodes. The nodes are labeled from `0` to `n - 1`. You are given a 0-indexed integer array `parents` representing the tree, where `parents[i]` is the parent of node `i`. Since node `0` is the root, `parents[0] == -1`.

Each node has a score. To find the score of a node, consider if the node and the edges connected to it were removed. The tree would become one or more non-empty subtrees. The size of a subtree is the number of the nodes in it. The score of the node is the product of the sizes of all those subtrees.

Return _the number of nodes that have the highest score_.

Example 1:

Input: parents = \[-1,2,0,2,0\]
Output: 3
Explanation:
- The score of node 0 is: 3 \ 1 = 3
- The score of node 1 is: 4 = 4
- The score of node 2 is: 1 \ 1 \ 2 = 2
- The score of node 3 is: 4 = 4
- The score of node 4 is: 4 = 4
The highest score is 4, and three nodes (node 1, node 3, and node 4) have the highest score.

Example 2:

Input: parents = \[-1,2,0\]
Output: 2
Explanation:
- The score of node 0 is: 2 = 2
- The score of node 1 is: 2 = 2
- The score of node 2 is: 1 \ 1 = 1
The highest score is 2, and two nodes (node 0 and node 1) have the highest score.

Constraints:

   `n == parents.length`
   `2 <= n <= 105`
   `parents[0] == -1`
   `0 <= parents[i] <= n - 1` for `i != 0`
   `parents` represents a valid binary tree.*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0074
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2374.txt
> def highest_edge_score_node(edges: List[int]) - int:<br>    """You are given a directed graph with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1`, where each node has exactly one outgoing edge.<br><br>The graph is represented by a given 0-indexed integer array `edges` of length `n`, where `edges[i]` indicates that there is a directed edge from node `i` to node `edges[i]`.<br><br>The edge score of a node `i` is defined as the sum of the labels of all the nodes that have an edge pointing to `i`.<br><br>Return _the node with the highest edge score_. If multiple nodes have the same edge score, return the node with the smallest index.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: edges = \[1,0,0,0,0,7,7,5\]<br>Output: 7<br>Explanation:<br>- The nodes 1, 2, 3 and 4 have an edge pointing to node 0. The edge score of node 0 is 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10.<br>- The node 0 has an edge pointing to node 1. The edge score of node 1 is 0.<br>- The node 7 has an edge pointing to node 5. The edge score of node 5 is 7.<br>- The nodes 5 and 6 have an edge pointing to node 7. The edge score of node 7 is 5 + 6 = 11.<br>Node 7 has the highest edge score so return 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: edges = \[2,0,0,2\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>- The nodes 1 and 2 have an edge pointing to node 0. The edge score of node 0 is 1 + 2 = 3.<br>- The nodes 0 and 3 have an edge pointing to node 2. The edge score of node 2 is 0 + 3 = 3.<br>Nodes 0 and 2 both have an edge score of 3. Since node 0 has a smaller index, we return 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == edges.length`<br>   `2 <= n <= 105`<br>   `0 <= edges[i] < n`<br>   `edges[i] != i`"""<br><br>    scores = [0]  len(edges)<br>    for i, edge in enumerate(edges):<br>        scores[edge] += i<br>    return scores.index(max(scores))

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1938.txt
> def min_operations(nums):<br>    """There is a rooted tree consisting of `n` nodes numbered `0` to `n - 1`. Each node's number denotes its unique genetic value (i.e. the genetic value of node `x` is `x`). The genetic difference between two genetic values is defined as the bitwise-XOR of their values. You are given the integer array `parents`, where `parents[i]` is the parent for node `i`. If node `x` is the root of the tree, then `parents[x] == -1`.<br><br>You are also given the array `queries` where `queries[i] = [nodei, vali]`. For each query `i`, find the maximum genetic difference between `vali` and `pi`, where `pi` is the genetic value of any node that is on the path between `nodei` and the root (including `nodei` and the root). More formally, you want to maximize `vali XOR pi`.<br><br>Return _an array_ `ans` _where_ `ans[i]` _is the answer to the_ `ith` _query_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: parents = \[-1,0,1,1\], queries = \[\[0,2\],\[3,2\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: \[2,3,7\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- \[0,2\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 0, with a difference of 2 XOR 0 = 2.<br>- \[3,2\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 1, with a difference of 2 XOR 1 = 3.<br>- \[2,5\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 2, with a difference of 5 XOR 2 = 7.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: parents = \[3,7,-1,2,0,7,0,2\], queries = \[\[4,6\],\[1,15\],\[0,5\]\]<br>Output: \[6,14,7\]<br>Explanation: The queries are processed as follows:<br>- \[4,6\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 0, with a difference of 6 XOR 0 = 6.<br>- \[1,15\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 1, with a difference of 15 XOR 1 = 14.<br>- \[0,5\]: The node with the maximum genetic difference is 2, with a difference of 5 XOR 2 = 7.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= parents.length <= 105`<br>   `0 <= parents[i] <= parents.length - 1` for every node `i` that is not the root.<br>   `parents[root] == -1`<br>   `1 <= queries.length <= 3  104`<br>   `0 <= nodei <= parents.length - 1`<br>   `0 <= vali <= 2  105`"""<br><br>    operations = 0<br>    for i in range(1, len(nums)):<br>        if nums[i] <= nums[i - 1]:<br>            operations += nums[i - 1] - nums[i] + 1<br>            nums[i] = nums[i - 1] + 1<br>    return operations

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1984.txt
> def max_distance(nums1, nums2):<br>    """You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums`, where `nums[i]` represents the score of the `ith` student. You are also given an integer `k`.<br><br>Pick the scores of any `k` students from the array so that the difference between the highest and the lowest of the `k` scores is minimized.<br><br>Return _the minimum possible difference_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: nums = \[90\], k = 1<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is one way to pick score(s) of one student:<br>- \[90\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 90 - 90 = 0.<br>The minimum possible difference is 0.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: nums = \[9,4,1,7\], k = 2<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are six ways to pick score(s) of two students:<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 4 = 5.<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 1 = 8.<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 9 - 7 = 2.<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 4 - 1 = 3.<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 7 - 4 = 3.<br>- \[9,4,1,7\]. The difference between the highest and lowest score is 7 - 1 = 6.<br>The minimum possible difference is 2.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= k <= nums.length <= 1000`<br>   `0 <= nums[i] <= 105`"""<br><br>    i, j, max_dist = 0, 0, 0<br>    while i < len(nums1) and j < len(nums2):<br>        if i <= j and nums1[i] <= nums2[j]:<br>            max_dist = max(max_dist, j - i)<br>            j += 1<br>        else:<br>            i += 1<br>    return max_dist

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1719.txt
> def check_ways(pairs):<br>    """You are given an array `pairs`, where `pairs[i] = [xi, yi]`, and:<br><br>   There are no duplicates.<br>   `xi < yi`<br><br>Let `ways` be the number of rooted trees that satisfy the following conditions:<br><br>   The tree consists of nodes whose values appeared in `pairs`.<br>   A pair `[xi, yi]` exists in `pairs` if and only if `xi` is an ancestor of `yi` or `yi` is an ancestor of `xi`.<br>   Note: the tree does not have to be a binary tree.<br><br>Two ways are considered to be different if there is at least one node that has different parents in both ways.<br><br>Return:<br><br>   `0` if `ways == 0`<br>   `1` if `ways == 1`<br>   `2` if `ways  1`<br><br>A rooted tree is a tree that has a single root node, and all edges are oriented to be outgoing from the root.<br><br>An ancestor of a node is any node on the path from the root to that node (excluding the node itself). The root has no ancestors.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There is exactly one valid rooted tree, which is shown in the above figure.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[1,3\]\]<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are multiple valid rooted trees. Three of them are shown in the above figures.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: pairs = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[1,5\]\]<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There are no valid rooted trees.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= pairs.length <= 105`<br>   `1 <= xi < yi <= 500`<br>   The elements in `pairs` are unique."""<br><br>    candidates = {}<br>    for x, y in pairs:<br>        candidates[x] = candidates.get(x, 0) + 1<br>        candidates[y] = candidates.get(y, 0) + 1<br><br>    root_count = sum(1 for v in candidates.values() if v == 1)<br>    return min(root_count, 2)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1617.txt
> def winnerSquareGame(n: int) - bool:<br>    """There are `n` cities numbered from `1` to `n`. You are given an array `edges` of size `n-1`, where `edges[i] = [ui, vi]` represents a bidirectional edge between cities `ui` and `vi`. There exists a unique path between each pair of cities. In other words, the cities form a tree.<br><br>A subtree is a subset of cities where every city is reachable from every other city in the subset, where the path between each pair passes through only the cities from the subset. Two subtrees are different if there is a city in one subtree that is not present in the other.<br><br>For each `d` from `1` to `n-1`, find the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities in the subtree is equal to `d`.<br><br>Return _an array of size_ `n-1` _where the_ `dth` _element (1-indexed) is the number of subtrees in which the maximum distance between any two cities is equal to_ `d`.<br><br>Notice that the distance between the two cities is the number of edges in the path between them.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 4, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[3,4,0\]<br>Explanation:<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2}, {2,3} and {2,4} have a max distance of 1.<br>The subtrees with subsets {1,2,3}, {1,2,4}, {2,3,4} and {1,2,3,4} have a max distance of 2.<br>No subtree has two nodes where the max distance between them is 3.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,2\]\]<br>Output: \[1\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 3, edges = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\]\]<br>Output: \[2,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `2 <= n <= 15`<br>   `edges.length == n-1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= ui, vi <= n`<br>   All pairs `(ui, vi)` are distinct."""<br><br>    dp = [False]  (n + 1)<br>    for i in range(1, n + 1):<br>        j = 1<br>        while j  j <= i:<br>            if not dp[i - j  j]:<br>                dp[i] = True<br>                break<br>            j += 1<br>    return dp[n]


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, leetcode/leetcode_834.txt
> def ambiguousCoordinates(s):<br>    """There is an undirected connected tree with `n` nodes labeled from `0` to `n - 1` and `n - 1` edges.<br><br>You are given the integer `n` and the array `edges` where `edges[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that there is an edge between nodes `ai` and `bi` in the tree.<br><br>Return an array `answer` of length `n` where `answer[i]` is the sum of the distances between the `ith` node in the tree and all other nodes.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 6, edges = \[\[0,1\],\[0,2\],\[2,3\],\[2,4\],\[2,5\]\]<br>Output: \[8,12,6,10,10,10\]<br>Explanation: The tree is shown above.<br>We can see that dist(0,1) + dist(0,2) + dist(0,3) + dist(0,4) + dist(0,5)<br>equals 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8.<br>Hence, answer\[0\] = 8, and so on.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 1, edges = \[\]<br>Output: \[0\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 2, edges = \[\[1,0\]\]<br>Output: \[1,1\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 3  104`<br>   `edges.length == n - 1`<br>   `edges[i].length == 2`<br>   `0 <= ai, bi < n`<br>   `ai != bi`<br>   The given input represents a valid tree."""<br><br>    def generateNumber(s):<br>        if not s or (len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0' and s[-1] == '0'):<br>            return []<br>        if len(s)  1 and s[0] == '0':<br>            return ["0." + s[1:]]<br>        res = [s]<br>        if len(s) == 1 or s[-1] == '0':<br>            return res<br>        for i in range(1, len(s)):<br>            res.append(s[:i] + "." + s[i:])<br>        return res<br><br>    n = len(s)<br>    res = []<br>    <br>    for i in range(2, n - 1):<br>        first = generateNumber(s[1:i])<br>        second = generateNumber(s[i:n - 1])<br>        <br>        for f in first:<br>            for sec in second:<br>                res.append("(" + f + ", " + sec + ")")<br>    <br>    return res
