# Query `99`

## Original Question

*You want to water `n` plants in your garden with a watering can. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`. There is a river at `x = -1` that you can refill your watering can at.

Each plant needs a specific amount of water. You will water the plants in the following way:

   Water the plants in order from left to right.
   After watering the current plant, if you do not have enough water to completely water the next plant, return to the river to fully refill the watering can.
   You cannot refill the watering can early.

You are initially at the river (i.e., `x = -1`). It takes one step to move one unit on the x-axis.

Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and an integer `capacity` representing the watering can capacity, return _the number of steps needed to water all the plants_.

Example 1:

Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacity = 5
Output: 14
Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:
- Walk to plant 0 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 3 units of water.
- Walk to plant 1 (1 step) and water it. Watering can has 1 unit of water.
- Since you cannot completely water plant 2, walk back to the river to refill (2 steps).
- Walk to plant 2 (3 steps) and water it. Watering can has 2 units of water.
- Since you cannot completely water plant 3, walk back to the river to refill (3 steps).
- Walk to plant 3 (4 steps) and water it.
Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 = 14.

Example 2:

Input: plants = \[1,1,1,4,2,3\], capacity = 4
Output: 30
Explanation: Start at the river with a full watering can:
- Water plants 0, 1, and 2 (3 steps). Return to river (3 steps).
- Water plant 3 (4 steps). Return to river (4 steps).
- Water plant 4 (5 steps). Return to river (5 steps).
- Water plant 5 (6 steps).
Steps needed = 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 = 30.

Example 3:

Input: plants = \[7,7,7,7,7,7,7\], capacity = 8
Output: 49
Explanation: You have to refill before watering each plant.
Steps needed = 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 6 + 6 + 7 = 49.

Constraints:

   `n == plants.length`
   `1 <= n <= 1000`
   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`
   `max(plants[i]) <= capacity <= 109`*


### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 1.0000
P_1: 1.0000
P_5: 0.2000
P_10: 0.1000
P_25: 0.0400
P_50: 0.0200
P_100: 0.0100
recall_1: 1.0000
recall_5: 1.0000
recall_10: 1.0000
recall_25: 1.0000
recall_50: 1.0000
recall_100: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 1.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 1.0000
map_cut_1: 1.0000
map_cut_5: 1.0000
map_cut_10: 1.0000
map_cut_25: 1.0000
map_cut_50: 1.0000
map_cut_100: 1.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (GROUND TRUTH) leetcode/leetcode_2105.txt
> def numberOfGoodSubsets(nums: list[int]) - int:<br>    """Alice and Bob want to water `n` plants in their garden. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. Alice and Bob have a watering can each, initially full. They water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Alice waters the plants in order from left to right, starting from the `0th` plant. Bob waters the plants in order from right to left, starting from the `(n - 1)th` plant. They begin watering the plants simultaneously.<br>   It takes the same amount of time to water each plant regardless of how much water it needs.<br>   Alice/Bob must water the plant if they have enough in their can to fully water it. Otherwise, they first refill their can (instantaneously) then water the plant.<br>   In case both Alice and Bob reach the same plant, the one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and two integers `capacityA` and `capacityB` representing the capacities of Alice's and Bob's watering cans respectively, return _the number of times they have to refill to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 5, capacityB = 5<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 5 units of water each in their watering cans.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 3 units and 2 units of water respectively.<br>- Alice has enough water for plant 1, so she waters it. Bob does not have enough water for plant 2, so he refills his can then waters it.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 0 + 1 + 0 = 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 3, capacityB = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 3 units and 4 units of water in their watering cans respectively.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 1 unit of water each, and need to water plants 1 and 2 respectively.<br>- Since neither of them have enough water for their current plants, they refill their cans and then water the plants.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 1 + 1 + 0 = 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[5\], capacityA = 10, capacityB = 8<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>- There is only one plant.<br>- Alice's watering can has 10 units of water, whereas Bob's can has 8 units. Since Alice has more water in her can, she waters this plant.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacityA, capacityB <= 109`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br><br>    def is_prime(n: int) - bool:<br>        if n <= 1:<br>            return False<br>        for i in range(2, int(n0.5) + 1):<br>            if n % i == 0:<br>                return False<br>        return True<br><br>    primes = [i for i in range(2, 91) if is_prime(i)]<br>    cnt = [0]  100<br>    for n in nums:<br>        cnt[n] += 1<br><br>    dp = [0]  (1 << 20)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    <br>    for i in range(30, 0, -1):<br>        if cnt[i] == 0:<br>            continue<br>        mask = [j for j in primes if i % j == 0]<br>        i = i // j<br>        if i  1:<br>            continue<br><br>        m = 0<br>        for j in mask:<br>            m |= 1 << (j - 2)<br><br>        for j in range(len(dp)-1, -1, -1):<br>            if dp[j] == 0:<br>                continue<br>            cur = 1<br>            for k in range(cnt[m]):<br>                cur = (cur  2) % MOD<br>                dp[j | m] = (dp[j | m] + dp[j]  cur) % MOD<br><br>    ans = sum(dp) % MOD<br>    ans = (ans - dp[0] + MOD) % MOD<br>    return (ans  (1 << (cnt[1] - 1))) % MOD

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_2147.txt
> def sum_of_points(s, answers):<br>    """Along a long library corridor, there is a line of seats and decorative plants. You are given a 0-indexed string `corridor` of length `n` consisting of letters `'S'` and `'P'` where each `'S'` represents a seat and each `'P'` represents a plant.<br><br>One room divider has already been installed to the left of index `0`, and another to the right of index `n - 1`. Additional room dividers can be installed. For each position between indices `i - 1` and `i` (`1 <= i <= n - 1`), at most one divider can be installed.<br><br>Divide the corridor into non-overlapping sections, where each section has exactly two seats with any number of plants. There may be multiple ways to perform the division. Two ways are different if there is a position with a room divider installed in the first way but not in the second way.<br><br>Return _the number of ways to divide the corridor_. Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo `109 + 7`. If there is no way, return `0`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: corridor =  "SSPPSPS "<br>Output: 3<br>Explanation: There are 3 different ways to divide the corridor.<br>The black bars in the above image indicate the two room dividers already installed.<br>Note that in each of the ways, each section has exactly two seats.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: corridor =  "PPSPSP "<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation: There is only 1 way to divide the corridor, by not installing any additional dividers.<br>Installing any would create some section that does not have exactly two seats.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: corridor =  "S "<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation: There is no way to divide the corridor because there will always be a section that does not have exactly two seats.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == corridor.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `corridor[i]` is either `'S'` or `'P'`."""<br><br>    total_points = 0<br>    result = 0<br>    term = 1<br>    sign = "+"<br><br>    for char in s:<br>        if char.isdigit():<br>            number = int(char)<br>            if sign == "+":<br>                result += term<br>                term = number<br>            elif sign == "":<br>                term = number<br>        else:<br>            sign = char<br><br>    result += term<br><br>    for ans in answers:<br>        total_points += (ans == result)<br><br>    return total_points

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1042.txt
> def mergeStones(stones, k):<br>    """You have `n` gardens, labeled from `1` to `n`, and an array `paths` where `paths[i] = [xi, yi]` describes a bidirectional path between garden `xi` to garden `yi`. In each garden, you want to plant one of 4 types of flowers.<br><br>All gardens have at most 3 paths coming into or leaving it.<br><br>Your task is to choose a flower type for each garden such that, for any two gardens connected by a path, they have different types of flowers.<br><br>Return _any such a choice as an array_ `answer`_, where_ `answer[i]` _is the type of flower planted in the_ `(i+1)th` _garden. The flower types are denoted_ `1`_,_ `2`_,_ `3`_, or_ `4`_. It is guaranteed an answer exists._<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: n = 3, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,1\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3\]<br>Explanation:<br>Gardens 1 and 2 have different types.<br>Gardens 2 and 3 have different types.<br>Gardens 3 and 1 have different types.<br>Hence, \[1,2,3\] is a valid answer. Other valid answers include \[1,2,4\], \[1,4,2\], and \[3,2,1\].<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: n = 4, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[3,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,1,2\]<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: n = 4, paths = \[\[1,2\],\[2,3\],\[3,4\],\[4,1\],\[1,3\],\[2,4\]\]<br>Output: \[1,2,3,4\]<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= n <= 104`<br>   `0 <= paths.length <= 2  104`<br>   `paths[i].length == 2`<br>   `1 <= xi, yi <= n`<br>   `xi != yi`<br>   Every garden has at most 3 paths coming into or leaving it."""<br><br>    n = len(stones)<br>    if (n - 1) % (k - 1) != 0:<br>        return -1<br>    prefixSum = [0]  (n + 1)<br>    dp = [[[-1]  (k + 1) for _ in range(n)] for _ in range(n)]<br><br>    for i in range(n):<br>        prefixSum[i + 1] = prefixSum[i] + stones[i]<br><br>    for l in range(2, n + 1):<br>        for i in range(n - l + 1):<br>            j = i + l - 1<br>            for m in range(2, k + 1):<br>                for p in range(i, j + 1 - m + 1, k - 1):<br>                    dp[i][j][m] = (dp[i][p][1] + dp[p + 1][j][m - 1]) % (1e9 + 7)<br>            if (j - i) % (k - 1) == 0:<br>                dp[i][j][1] = (dp[i][j][k] + prefixSum[j + 1] - prefixSum[i]) % (1e9 + 7)<br><br>    return dp[0][n - 1][1]

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1954.txt
> def replace_digits(s: str) - str:<br>    """In a garden represented as an infinite 2D grid, there is an apple tree planted at every integer coordinate. The apple tree planted at an integer coordinate `(i, j)` has `|i| + |j|` apples growing on it.<br><br>You will buy an axis-aligned square plot of land that is centered at `(0, 0)`.<br><br>Given an integer `neededApples`, return _the minimum perimeter of a plot such that at least_ `neededApples` _apples are inside or on the perimeter of that plot_.<br><br>The value of `|x|` is defined as:<br><br>   `x` if `x = 0`<br>   `-x` if `x < 0`<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 1<br>Output: 8<br>Explanation: A square plot of side length 1 does not contain any apples.<br>However, a square plot of side length 2 has 12 apples inside (as depicted in the image above).<br>The perimeter is 2 \ 4 = 8.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 13<br>Output: 16<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: neededApples = 1000000000<br>Output: 5040<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= neededApples <= 1015`"""<br><br>    s = list(s)<br>    for i in range(1, len(s), 2):<br>        s[i] = chr(ord(s[i - 1]) + int(s[i]))<br>    return ''.join(s)

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) leetcode/leetcode_1269.txt
> from functools import lru_cache<br>    """You have a pointer at index `0` in an array of size `arrLen`. At each step, you can move 1 position to the left, 1 position to the right in the array, or stay in the same place (The pointer should not be placed outside the array at any time).<br><br>Given two integers `steps` and `arrLen`, return the number of ways such that your pointer is still at index `0` after exactly `steps` steps. Since the answer may be too large, return it modulo `109 + 7`.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: steps = 3, arrLen = 2<br>Output: 4<br>Explanation: There are 4 differents ways to stay at index 0 after 3 steps.<br>Right, Left, Stay<br>Stay, Right, Left<br>Right, Stay, Left<br>Stay, Stay, Stay<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: steps = 2, arrLen = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation: There are 2 differents ways to stay at index 0 after 2 steps<br>Right, Left<br>Stay, Stay<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: steps = 4, arrLen = 2<br>Output: 8<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `1 <= steps <= 500`<br>   `1 <= arrLen <= 106`"""<br><br><br>mod = 109 + 7<br><br>def numOfWays(steps: int, arrLen: int) - int:<br>    @lru_cache(None)<br>    def dp(s, p):<br>        if p < 0 or p = arrLen or p  steps - p:<br>            return 0<br>        if s == 0:<br>            return p == 0<br>        return (dp(s - 1, p - 1) + dp(s - 1, p) + dp(s - 1, p + 1)) % mod<br><br>    return dp(steps, 0)<br>```<br><br>    <br>    We use dynamic programming to solve this problem. The state of our dynamic programming is `dp[s][p]`, which represents the number of ways to be at position `p` after `s` steps.<br><br>The base case is `dp[0][0] = 1`, which means there is only one way to be at position `0` (stay there).<br><br>Our transition function is as follows:<br>```<br>dp[s][p] = dp[s - 1][p - 1] + dp[s - 1][p] + dp[s - 1][p + 1] (% mod)


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked 0, leetcode/leetcode_2105.txt
> def numberOfGoodSubsets(nums: list[int]) - int:<br>    """Alice and Bob want to water `n` plants in their garden. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the `ith` plant is located at `x = i`.<br><br>Each plant needs a specific amount of water. Alice and Bob have a watering can each, initially full. They water the plants in the following way:<br><br>   Alice waters the plants in order from left to right, starting from the `0th` plant. Bob waters the plants in order from right to left, starting from the `(n - 1)th` plant. They begin watering the plants simultaneously.<br>   It takes the same amount of time to water each plant regardless of how much water it needs.<br>   Alice/Bob must water the plant if they have enough in their can to fully water it. Otherwise, they first refill their can (instantaneously) then water the plant.<br>   In case both Alice and Bob reach the same plant, the one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.<br><br>Given a 0-indexed integer array `plants` of `n` integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and two integers `capacityA` and `capacityB` representing the capacities of Alice's and Bob's watering cans respectively, return _the number of times they have to refill to water all the plants_.<br><br>Example 1:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 5, capacityB = 5<br>Output: 1<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 5 units of water each in their watering cans.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 3 units and 2 units of water respectively.<br>- Alice has enough water for plant 1, so she waters it. Bob does not have enough water for plant 2, so he refills his can then waters it.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 0 + 1 + 0 = 1.<br><br>Example 2:<br><br>Input: plants = \[2,2,3,3\], capacityA = 3, capacityB = 4<br>Output: 2<br>Explanation:<br>- Initially, Alice and Bob have 3 units and 4 units of water in their watering cans respectively.<br>- Alice waters plant 0, Bob waters plant 3.<br>- Alice and Bob now have 1 unit of water each, and need to water plants 1 and 2 respectively.<br>- Since neither of them have enough water for their current plants, they refill their cans and then water the plants.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill to water all the plants is 0 + 1 + 1 + 0 = 2.<br><br>Example 3:<br><br>Input: plants = \[5\], capacityA = 10, capacityB = 8<br>Output: 0<br>Explanation:<br>- There is only one plant.<br>- Alice's watering can has 10 units of water, whereas Bob's can has 8 units. Since Alice has more water in her can, she waters this plant.<br>So, the total number of times they have to refill is 0.<br><br>Constraints:<br><br>   `n == plants.length`<br>   `1 <= n <= 105`<br>   `1 <= plants[i] <= 106`<br>   `max(plants[i]) <= capacityA, capacityB <= 109`"""<br><br>    MOD = 109 + 7<br><br>    def is_prime(n: int) - bool:<br>        if n <= 1:<br>            return False<br>        for i in range(2, int(n0.5) + 1):<br>            if n % i == 0:<br>                return False<br>        return True<br><br>    primes = [i for i in range(2, 91) if is_prime(i)]<br>    cnt = [0]  100<br>    for n in nums:<br>        cnt[n] += 1<br><br>    dp = [0]  (1 << 20)<br>    dp[0] = 1<br>    <br>    for i in range(30, 0, -1):<br>        if cnt[i] == 0:<br>            continue<br>        mask = [j for j in primes if i % j == 0]<br>        i = i // j<br>        if i  1:<br>            continue<br><br>        m = 0<br>        for j in mask:<br>            m |= 1 << (j - 2)<br><br>        for j in range(len(dp)-1, -1, -1):<br>            if dp[j] == 0:<br>                continue<br>            cur = 1<br>            for k in range(cnt[m]):<br>                cur = (cur  2) % MOD<br>                dp[j | m] = (dp[j | m] + dp[j]  cur) % MOD<br><br>    ans = sum(dp) % MOD<br>    ans = (ans - dp[0] + MOD) % MOD<br>    return (ans  (1 << (cnt[1] - 1))) % MOD
