# Query `77`

## Original Question

*Which part of the brain needs to be shut down to lose conciousness?
Whether it is mechanical (trauma), chemical (anaesthesia) or electrical - which part of the brain is shut down to cause loss of consciousness?*

## GPT-4 Reasoning

Which part of the brain needs to be shut down to lose conciousness?
Whether it is mechanical (trauma), chemical (anaesthesia) or electrical - which part of the brain is shut down to cause loss of consciousness?

### Metrics

```
recip_rank: 0.0012
P_1: 0.0000
P_5: 0.0000
P_10: 0.0000
P_25: 0.0000
P_50: 0.0000
P_100: 0.0000
recall_1: 0.0000
recall_5: 0.0000
recall_10: 0.0000
recall_25: 0.0000
recall_50: 0.0000
recall_100: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_1: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_5: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_10: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_25: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_50: 0.0000
ndcg_cut_100: 0.0000
map_cut_1: 0.0000
map_cut_5: 0.0000
map_cut_10: 0.0000
map_cut_25: 0.0000
map_cut_50: 0.0000
map_cut_100: 0.0000
```

## Retrieval Results

### DOC[1] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC6703193_37_24.txt
> in cortical effective connectivity during midazolam-induced loss of consciousness. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U S A 107, 2681–2686. 10.1073/pnas.0913008107 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]<br>Fiset P., Paus T., Daloze T., Plourde G., Meuret P., Bonhomme V., et al.. (1999). Brain mechanisms of propofol-induced loss of consciousness in humans: a positron emission tom

### DOC[2] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC2923650_10_0.txt
> Under the reticular hypothesis of concussion, loss of consciousness after brain trauma results from a disturbance or depression of the activity of polysynaptic pathways within the RAS 25. It is not completely understood how a traumatic dysfunction of the RAS occurs however it is believed to result from shearing or tensile strains on RAS pathways at the cranio-cervical junction. Neuropathological evidence for this is limited. The hypothesis also fails to address traumatic amnesia. A further difficulty is that EEG findings do not support depression of the RAS in concussion.

### DOC[3] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC10539891_13_0.txt
> The truth likely resides between these extremities of primarily a cortical or subcortical effect of anaesthetics, and likely depends on the considered agent and dose. However, the net result translates into cortical consequences that lead to the different anaesthetic states of consciousness. A summary of the known effects of anaesthetic agents on the AAN and on the cortex is provided in Figure 1.

### DOC[4] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC6703193_38_13.txt
> Mashour G. A., Hudetz A. G. (2018). Neural correlates of unconsciousness in large-scale brain networks. Trends Neurosci. 41, 150–160. 10.1016/j.tins.2018.01.003 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]<br>Mason S. E., Noel-Storr A., Ritchie C. W. (2010). The impact of general and regional anesthesia on the incidence of post-operative cognitive dysfunction and post-operative delirium: a systematic review

### DOC[5] (IRRELEVANT) shut_down_conciousness/PMC10539891_23_0.txt
> It has been suggested that general anaesthesia primarily occurs via disruption of the reverberant global workspace functioning, and therefore of conscious access to information. Supporting this, EEG studies of directional connectivity in anaesthesia have shown that the functional connections from the frontal cortex towards more posterior areas (reflecting a frontal broadcasting of information) are pertinent,82,87,88,89 and the large-scale network top-down organisation,90,91 feedback (from higher- to lower-order cortical networks),91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97 and feedforward (the opposite pathway) connectivity


## Ground Truth

### GROUND TRUTH 0, ranked not in top 100, shut_down_conciousness/Neocortex_0.txt
> The neocortex, also called the neopallium, isocortex, or the six-layered cortex, is a set of layers of the mammalian cerebral cortex involved in higher-order brain functions such as sensory perception, cognition, generation of motor commands, spatial reasoning and language. The neocortex is further subdivided into the true isocortex and the proisocortex.<br>In the human brain, the cerebral cortex consists of the larger neocortex and the smaller allocortex, respectively taking up 90% and 10%. The neocortex is made up of six layers, labelled from the outermost inwards, I to VI.

### GROUND TRUTH 1, ranked not in top 100, shut_down_conciousness/Neocortex_3.txt
> Function[edit]<br>The neocortex is derived embryonically from the dorsal telencephalon, which is the rostral part of the forebrain. The neocortex is divided, into regions demarcated by the cranial sutures in the skull above, into frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes, which perform different functions. For example, the occipital lobe contains the primary visual cortex, and the temporal lobe contains the primary auditory cortex. Further subdivisions or areas of neocortex are responsible for more specific cognitive processes. In humans, the frontal lobe contains areas devoted to abilities that are enhanced in or unique to our species, such as complex language processing localized to the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (Broca's area). In humans and other primates, social and emotional processing is localized to the orbitofrontal cortex.<br>The neocortex has also been shown to play an influential role in sleep, memory and learning processes. Semantic memories appear to be stored in the neocortex, specifically the anterolateral temporal lobe of the neocortex. It is also involved in instrumental conditioning; responsible for transmitting sensory information and information about plans for movement to the basal ganglia. The firing rate of neurons in the neocortex also has an effect on slow-wave sleep. When the neurons are at rest and are hyperpolarizing, a period of inhibition occurs during a slow oscillation, called the down state. When the neurons of the neocortex are in the excitatory depolarizing phase and are firing briefly at a high rate, a period of excitation occurs during a slow oscillation, called the up state.
